.TH "sample" "1" "20 January 1998" "IPW v2.0" "IPW  Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsample\fP - a sample IPW command to demonstrate IPW man pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBsample\fP \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP \fB-b\fP \fIband\fP[,...] [ \fB-K\fP ] [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ]
     [ \fB-t\fP \fIbig-threshold\fP[,\fImedium-threshold\fP[,\fIsmall-threshold\fP]] ]
     [ \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This section describes what the command does.  Each paragraph should be
surrounded by paragraphs tags: <P> and </P>.
.PP
References to the command should use the IPW macro "name", so
if the command is renamed, the man page will be updated automatically.
The name of the command should be in boldface, e.g., \fBsample\fP.
.PP
Tables should be specified using PRE-formatted text.  For example,
the following table shows those characters which must be represented
by their HTML entity notation in an IPW man page:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     character            HTML notation

     double quote (")     &quot;
     less than (<)        &lt;
     greater than (>)     &gt;
     ampersand (&)        &amp;
.ft R
.fi
.PP
A reference to another IPW command should be specified as a link
to that command's man page, for example,
\fBisample\fP.
The link should be in boldface, so that
the referenced command will stand out in the Unix version of the man
page.
.PP
This is an example of some small indented segments of text.  The Unix
version of this man page will have the text indented as well, but without
the bullets.
.sp
.RS
when 0.0 < %_snow < 1.0, (a mixed rain/snow event):
.br
.RS
snow temperature = 0.0
.br
rain temperature = T_pp 
.br
liquid H2O sat. = 100% 
.br
.RS
when %_snow = 1.0 and T_pp => 0.0, (a warm snow-only event) 
.br
.RS
snow temperature = 0.0 
.br
liquid H2O sat. = 100% 
.br
.RS
when %_snow = 1.0 and T_pp < 0.0, (a cold snow event) 
.br
.RS
snow temperature = T_pp 
.br
liquid H2O sat. = 0% 
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
\fIelev\fP is the elevation of the reference location (m);
used to compute air pressure.
.sp
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIband\fP[,...]
Perform the calculation on only the specified bands of the input image.
.sp
.TP
\fB-K\fP
Accept/output temperatures in degrees K (default: degrees C).
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
Use \fImask\fP as a mask image.  Calculations are performed only for
those points in the input image whose corresponding points in \fImask\fP
are not 0.
.sp
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIbig-threshold\fP[,\fImedium-threshold\fP[,\fIsmall-threshold\fP]]
This is an example of an optional option which must have at least
one argument: \fIbig-threshold\fP.  This description of the option
should state any default value, e.g., (default: 60 kg/m^2).
.sp
If the option has two arguments, the second argument is taken to
be the \fImedium-threshold\fP (default 10 kg/m^2).
.sp
If the option has three arguments, the third argument is taken to
be the \fIsmall-threshold\fP (default 1 kg/m^2).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
Use \fIimage\fP as the input image (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This section should include examples of how the command is used.  The
actual command-line that would be typed in by the user for the example
should be PRE-formatted text.
.PP
Here is an EXAMPLES section based on the IPW command 'primg':
.PP
To interactively examine pixel values in \fIimage\fP, type:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     primg -i \fIimage\fP
.ft R
.fi
.PP
then type the pixel coordinates on the standard input (but note
that the coordinates must be typed in increasing line order).
.PP
If the text file "basin" contains the (line,sample) coordinates of
the corners of a drainage basin in the DEM image "dem", and \fIline\fP,
\fIsamp\fP are the coordinates of an arbitrary point within the drainage
basin, then:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     poly -s \fIline\fP,\fIsamp\fP basin | primg -i dem
.ft R
.fi
.PP
will print all of the pixel values in the image "dem" that lie
within the drainage basin.
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     $(IPW)/aux/proj/std          Standard geographic projections
     $(HOME)/ipw/foo.config       User's configuration file for
                                    Foo modeling
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
elevation below sea level: \fIelev\fP
.br
The elevation \fIelev\fP must be 0 or positive.
.sp
.TP
medium threshold (\fI#\fP) exceeds big threshold (\fI#\fP)
.br
The \fImedium-threshold\fP must be equal to or smaller than the
\fIbig-threshold\fP.
.sp
.TP
small threshold (\fI#\fP) exceeds medium threshold (\fI#\fP)
.br
The \fIsmall-threshold\fP must be equal to or smaller than the
\fImedium-threshold\fP.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Aug 1984
Written by J. Doe, UCSB
.sp
.TP
Jun 1987
Added the \fB-K\fP option.  Z. Smith, USGS
.sp
.TP
Feb 1996
Increased the number of thresholds from two to three to improve
model stability over small temperature variations.  K. Brown, OSU
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBadvec\fP,
\fBdeltaT\fP,
\fBgradient\fP,
\fBzpr\fP
.TP
Unix:
diff, grep
.PP
Doe, J.A., 1976. A simplied approach to the standard foobar equations.
\fIXYZ Technical Report 19\fP, Regional Climatic Research Institute,
Cascadia, TI, 150p.
.PP
Garen, D.C., and D. Marks, 1996. Spatially distributed snow modelling
in mountainous regions: Boise River application. In: \fIHydroGIS `96:
Application of Geographic Information Systems in Hydrology and Water
Resources Management\fP, IAHS Publication No. 235, pp. 421-428.
.PP
Morris, E.M., 1982. Sensitivity of the European Hydrological System
snow models. In: \fIHydrological Aspects of Alpine and High-Mountain Areas\fP,
J.W. Glen, ed., International Association of Hydrological Sciences, Wallingford,
UK, IAHS-AIHS Publication 138, pp 221-231.
