.TH "now_dt" "3" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW Library Functions"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBnow_dt\fP - (now_dt's description)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "ipw.h"
#include "snow.h"

double
now_dt(
     double  rho,    /* snow layer's density (kg/m^3)             */
     double  tsno,   /* snow layer's temperature (K)              */
     double  tg,     /* soil temperature (K)                      */
     double  ds,     /* snow layer's thickness (m)                */
     double  dg,     /* dpeth of soil temperature measurement (m) */
     double  pa)     /* air pressure (Pa)                         */
.ft R
.fi
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "ipw.h"
#include "bih.h"

char *
now_dt(void)
.ft R
.fi
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "ipw.h"

void
now_dt(
     int    total_secs,   /* total time as seconds */

  /* outputs */

     int  * hrs,          /* 0 - ...               */
     int  * mins,         /* 1 - 59                */
     int  * secs)         /* 1 - 59                */
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBnow_dt\fP calculates the sun angle (the azimuth and zenith
angles of the sun's position) for a given geodetic location
(specified by \fIlatitude\fP and \fIlongitude\fP) and a given
date and time (specified by \fIdatetime\fP).
.PP
\fBnow_dt\fP reads the given projection definition file, writes the
contents into a projdef struct, and returns a pointer to the
struct. The projection definition files are ASCII files with
the following format:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    projection ID
    units code
    zone code
    datum code
    projection parameters (15 values)
.ft R
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Number of days in the month.
.TP
!= NULL
Pointer to new header structure.
.sp
.TP
NULL
Error occurred; a message explaining it was stored with the
"usrerr" function.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Dec 1983
Written by D. Marks, CSL/UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Oct 1992
Converted from QDIPS to IPW by D. Marks, USGS, EPA ERL/C.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
mwgamma(),
twostream()
.sp
.TP
Unix:
fread(), fwrite()
.PP
Brutsaert, W., 1975. On a derivable formula for long-wave
radiation from clear skies.  \fIWater Resources Research\fP,
vol. 11, no. 5, pp 742-744.
.PP
Marks, D., and J. Dozier, and R.E. Davis, 1979. A clear-sky
longwave radiation model for remote alpine areas. \fIArchiv
fur Meteorologie, Geophysik und Bioklimatologie, Series B\fP,
vol. 27, no. 23, pp. 159-187.
.PP
Brutsaert 1975,
Marks 1979
