.TH "basin" "3" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW Library Functions"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbasin\fP - delineate a basin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "topo.h"

fpixel_t
basin(
    int        seedX,      /* sample number of seed point          */
    int        seedY,      /* line number of seed point            */
    fpixel_t * slope,      /* array of sin(slope) data for pixels  */
    fpixel_t * exposure,   /* array of exposure data for pixels    */
    fpixel_t * elev,       /* array of elevation data for pixels   */
    pixel_t  * bmask,      /* output basin mask                    */
    int        x_count,    /* number of samples in image           */
    int        y_count,    /* number of lines in image             */
    fpixel_t   flat,       /* threshold for "flat" slopes          */
    int        clipFlag,   /* clip basin to a specific altitude?   */
    fpixel_t   clipElev)   /* elevation at which to clip the basin */
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Given a seed point and slope and exposure data, the \fBbasin\fP function
recursively climbs "upstream", marking cells as it goes, in order to
delineate a basin.
.PP
Upstream neighbors are determinded by the exposure direction of the
current cell.
.PP
Flat regions are always considered uphill, no matter what their
orientation.  The "flat" argument allows the programmer to specify a
nonzero sin(slope) tolerance for flatness.
.PP
If an array of elevations is fed to the procedure through the
"elev" argument, then the lowest point on the boundary is computed
and returned to the calling procedure.  If "elev" is NULL, the
function returns 0.0.
.PP
\fBbasin\fP also implements clipping of the basin to a specified maximum
altitude.  If "clipFlag" is TRUE, and "elev" is non-NULL, then the
recursion stops before climbing abouve the elevation specified by
"clipElev".
.PP
The intended use of the clipping and return-the-lowest-point features
is for pit masking.  Two calls to \fBbasin\fP are to be made in the pit
masking process.  The first call delineates the entire basin starting
with the pit seed point.  The lowest point on the boundary from this
first call is then passed to a second call to \fBbasin\fP as a clipping
threshold, thus delineating only the extent of the pit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
If an array of elevations is fed to the procedure through the
"elev" argument, then the lowest point on the boundary is computed
and returned to the calling procedure.  If "elev" is NULL, the
function returns 0.0.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
May 1995
Started by Kevin L. Novins, ERL-C.  Based on Qdips program
by Marks and Dozier.
.sp
.TP
Jul 1995
Modified to include features necessary for pit masking.
.sp
.TP
Jun 1998
Extracted from \fBbmask\fP and \fBpmask\fP programs, and
placed in a separate library.  J. Domingo, OSU.
