.TH "gtrnz0_" "3" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW Library Functions"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBgtrnz0_\fP - transform coordinates between two reference systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "gctp.h"

int
gtrnz0_(
     double *crdin,    /* coordinates in input system         */
     int    *indef,    /* info about input coordinate system  */
     double *tparin,   /* input projection parameters         */

  /* output variable */

     double *crdio,    /* coordinates in output system        */

  /* input variables */

     int    *iodef,    /* info about output coordinate system */
     double *tpario,   /* output projection parameters        */
     FILE   *ipfile,   /* file to print projection infor to
                            (may be NULL)                     */

  /* output variable */

     int    *iflg)     /* return code: = 0 if transformation
                            succeeded; <> 0 if error occurred */

.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBgtrnz0_\fP is the top-level routine in the General Cartographic
Transformation Package (GCTP) library.  It converts a pair of coordinates
in one reference system to another.  The input and output coordinates
(\fIcrdin\fP and \fIcrdio\fP, respectively) are stored in 2-element arrays:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Coordinates (2-element array):

         element 0 = east-west dimension (e.g., X, longitude, easting)
                     (west longitudes are negative)
         element 1 = norst-south dimension (e.g., Y, latitude, northing)
                     (south latitudes are negative)
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Information about the input and output reference systems (\fIindef\fP
and \fIiodef\fP, respectively) are specified by 3-element arrays:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Info about reference coordinate system: (3-element array):

         element 0 = code for coordinate system
                         0 = GEOGRAPHIC
                         1 = U T M
                         2 = STATE PLANE
                         3 = ALBERS CONICAL EQUAL-AREA
                         4 = LAMBERT CONFORMAL CONIC
                         5 = MERCATOR
                         6 = POLAR STEREOGRAPHIC
                         7 = POLYCONIC
                         8 = EQUIDISTANT CONIC
                         9 = TRANSVERSE MERCATOR
                        10 = STEREOGRAPHIC
                        11 = LAMBERT AZIMUTHAL EQUAL-AREA
                        12 = AZIMUTHAL EQUIDISTANT
                        13 = GNOMONIC
                        14 = ORTHOGRAPHIC
                        15 = GENERAL VERTICAL NEAR-SIDE PERSPECTIVE
                        16 = SINUSOIDAL
                        17 = EQUIRECTANGULAR
                        18 = MILLER CYLINDRICAL
                        19 = VAN DER GRINTEN I
                        20 = OBLIQUE MERCATOR (HOTINE)
         element 1 = code for zone of coordinate system
                       (for UTM and STATE PLANE systems only; see
                        Appendix A and B of reference below)
         element 2 = code for units of measure
                         0 = RADIANS
                         1 = FEET
                         2 = METERS
                         3 = SECONDS OF ARC
                         4 = DEGREES OF ARC
                         5 = PACKED DMS
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Projection parameters for the input and output reference systems
(\fItparin\fP and \fItpario\fP, respectively) are specified by
15-element arrays.  See Appendix C of the reference below for
a description of these arrays.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Always returns 0.  If \fIiflg\fP is non-zero, then a diagnostic message
was stored via the "usrerr" routine.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH GLOBALS ACCESSED
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
... : Angle greater than 360 degrees = \fIangle\fP
.TP
... : Didn't find state zone \fIzone\fP
.TP
... : Equal latitudes for st. parallels on opposite sides of equator
.TP
... : Illegal packed dms field = \fIDMS field\fP
.TP
... : Illegal source or target unit code = \fIsource code\fP \fItarget code\fP
.TP
... : Illegal source reference system code = \fIcode\fP
.TP
... : Illegal source unit code = \fIcode\fP
.TP
... : Illegal source zone number = \fIcode\fP
.TP
... : Illegal target reference system code = \fIcode\fP
.TP
... : Illegal target unit code = \fIcode\fP
.TP
... : Illegal target zone number = \fIzone\fP
.TP
... : Illegal zone no. = \fIzone\fP
.TP
... : Improper parameter
.TP
... : Inconsistant unit codes = \fIsource code\fP \fItarget code\fP
.TP
... : Latitude failed to converge
.TP
... : Point cannot be projected
.TP
... : Point projects into a circle
.TP
... : Point projects into infinity
.TP
... : Transformation cannot be computed at the poles
.TP
... : Uninitialized transformation
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Sep 1991
Ported MIT's modified version of GCTP that was distributed with GRASS.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
USGS 1994
