.TH "bin2text" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbin2text\fP - convert binary file of integers to text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBbin2text\fP [ \fB-1\fP ] [ \fB-2\fP ] [ \fB-4\fP ] [\fIfile ...\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbin2text\fP reads binary integers from \fIfile\fP (default: standard input) and
writes either text equivalents to the standard output.  If more
than one \fIfile\fP are specified, then they are read in sequence.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-1\fP
Convert 1-byte (char) integers.
.sp
.TP
\fB-2\fP
Convert 2-byte (short) integers.
.sp
.TP
\fB-4\fP
Convert 4-byte (long) integers.
.PP
Exactly one of \fB-1, \fB-2, or \fB-4 must be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIfile\fP
Input file to read binary integers from (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To print the first 100 quantized pixel values from an IPW image
with 2-byte pixels:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     rmhdr | bin2text -2 | head -100
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Using ipwfile, the number of bytes can be determined automatically:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     rmhdr image | bin2text -`ipwfile -my image` | head -100
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\fBbin2text\fP is not an IPW program, but is provided with IPW for use in
shell scripts.
.PP
Input values are assumed to be unsigned.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.TP
Dec 1997
Ported to version 2, and renamed from \fBbtoa\fP to \fBbin2text\fP.
J. Domingo, OSU.
.SH BUGS
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBtext2bin\fP
