.TH "bitcom" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbitcom\fP - bitwise combination of pixels (AND, OR, exclusive-OR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBbitcom\fP [ \fB-a\fP ] [ \fB-o\fP ] [ \fB-x\fP ] [ \fB-m\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbitcom\fP writes a bitwise combination of the input image bands on the
standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP
output image is bitwise AND of input bands.  The output
image will have a non-0 value only if the matching pixel
from all input images have a non-0 value.
.sp
.TP
\fB-o\fP
output image is bitwise inclusive-OR of input bands.  The
output image will have a non-0 value if any of the matching
pixels from the input images have a non-0 value.
.sp
.TP
\fB-x\fP
output image is bitwise exclusive-OR of input bands.  The
output image will have a 0 value if all inputs are 0 or if
the input images match exactly.
.PP
Exactly one of \fB-a, \fB-o, \fB-x must be specified.
.TP
\fB-m\fP
the last (highest-numbered) input band is assumed to be a
mask.  All non-0 pixels are set to ~0 before the bit
operations are performed.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
input image with at least 2 bands (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To mask a DEM "elev" such that pixels outside the drainage basin
"basin" are set to 0:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux elev basin | bitcom -a -m
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
single-band input image
The input image must have at least 2 bands
.sp
.TP
different # bits / pixel: bands 0, \fIband\fP
All input bands must have the same number of bits per
pixel (except the last band, if \fB-m is specified).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
All input bands must have the same number of bits per pixel
(if \fB-m is specified, then the last band is exempt from this
restriction).
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBmux\fP
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
