.TH "demux" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBdemux\fP - demultiplex (extract) bands from IPW image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBdemux\fP \fB-b\fP \fIband\fP[,\fI...\fP] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBdemux\fP extracts the specified bands from image, or from the standard
input.  The image consisting of only the specified bands is written
to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIband\fP[,\fI...\fP]
extract the specified bands.  The bands will appear in the
output image in the order specified.  A range of bands can
be selected by specifying the starting band and the ending
band separated by a minus sign, e.g., "0-3" selects band 0
through band 3.  If the ending band is not specified, the
default is the last band, e.g., "2-" selects the all the
bands from band 2 to the last band.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
Input image (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To reverse the order of a 2 band image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     demux -b 1,0 image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To create a 3 band image consisting of the first 3 bands of "image":
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     demux -b 0,1,2 image

     \fIor\fP

     demux -b 0-2 image
.ft R
.fi
.PP
To extract all but the first band of an image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     demux -b 1- image
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
\fIband\fP: bad input band number
The input image does not contain the specified band.
.sp
.TP
"\fIheader\fP" header, band \fIband\fP: no such band
The specified \fIheader\fP in the input image pertains to a
nonexistent band (i.e., the input image is corrupted).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
May 1993
Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.PP
.TP
Jun 1998
Modified so that ranges of bands can be specified with the \fB-b\fP option.
Also fixed bug with BI headers when input bands were being swapped (as in
the example above).  J. Domingo, OSU.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBmux\fP
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
