.TH "dither" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBdither\fP - convert IPW image into bilevel image using ordered dithering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBdither\fP [ \fB-r\fP \fIrank\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Dither converts the input image into a bilevel (1 bit per pixel)
output image, using ordered dithering.  "Black" output pixels are
assigned the value 0; "white" output pixels are assigned the value 1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fP \fIrank\fP
Use a \fBdither\fP matrix of rank \fIrank\fP (default 4).  Possible
values are 4, 8, or 16, for simulating 16, 64, or 256 gray
levels, respectively.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image
		Image to be dithered
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display "image" on a monochrome Sun workstation using a standard
version of xli (not modified to accept ipw image formats):
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	dither image | ipw2sun | xli stdin
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Before using \fBdither\fP, make sure that the output device (e.g.,
Postscript printer) or display software (e.g. xv, xloadimage)
does not already incorporate a better halftoning algorithm.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
May 1993
	Converted to ANSI C.  Ran through Purify.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBipw2sun\fP
.TP
Image
	ppmdither, rledither, to8, xv, xli, xloadimage
.PP
David F. Rogers, "Procedural Elements for Computer Graphics",
	McGraw-Hill, 1985, p. 107.
.PP
Frew, J., 1990. The Image Processing Workbench. PhD Thesis, Department
	if Geography, University of California, Santa Barbara, 382p.
