.TH "edimg" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBedimg\fP - edit the pixels of an IPW image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBedimg\fP [ \fB-r\fP ] [ \fB-k\fP \fIconst\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP \fIcoords\fP ] [ \fB-i\fP \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBedimg\fP copies the input \fIimage\fP to the standard output, replacing
specified pixel values.  Replacement values are read from the
text file \fIcoords\fP.  Each value is represented by as a single
line with the format:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	line sample constant
.ft R
.fi

.PP
indicating that the value of the pixel at location \fIline\fP,\fIsample\fP
is to be replaced with \fIconstant\fP.  If \fIconstant\fP is missing, the
default value specified by \fB-k is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Replacement values are "raw" (i.e., should not be converted
from floating-point before storing in pixels).  Any input
"lq" headers will be ignored.
.sp
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIconst\fP
The default replacement pixel value is \fIconst\fP (default: 0).
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcoords\fP
Coordinates are read from \fIcoords\fP (default: standard input).
.sp
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIimage\fP
Image data is read from \fIimage\fP (default: standard input).
.PP
At least one of \fB-c and/or \fB-i must be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
	image
		if "-i" option is omitted
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To set the pixel(s) at (100,200) in "image" to 255:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	edimg -r -i image
	100 200 255
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
invalid coordinates: \fItext\fP
.br
	The \fItext\fP line is not a valid replacement value
	specification.
.sp
.TP
unsorted coordinates: \fIline\fP, \fIsample\fP
.br
	The coordinates must be sorted in order of increasing
	line numbers.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The coordinates must be sorted in order of increasing line numbers
(the order of the samples is unimportant).
.PP
If the input image has more than one band, then ALL bands at a
specified location are set to the corresponding replacement value.
.PP
The input \fIline\fP and \fIsample\fP values are always raw.  They are
unaffected by any coordinate system headers such as "geo", "win",
etc. in the input image.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB
.TP
May 1993
	Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBedhdr\fP,
\fBpoly\fP,
\fBprhdr\fP,
\fBprimg\fP
.TP
UNIX
	sort
.PP
Frew, J., 1990. The Image Processing Workbench. PhD Thesis, Department
	if Geography, University of California, Santa Barbara, 382p.
