.TH "fillbands" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBfillbands\fP - create bands between two bands using linear interpolation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBfillbands\fP \fB-n\fP \fIbands\fP [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBfillbands\fP inputs a two-band image, and outputs a multi-band image
which is a linear interpolation between the two input bands.
For example, if the two bands of the input image were constant
surfaces with the values 1 and 10, respectively, then running
\fBfillbands\fP with "\fB-n 8" would create output bands with the constant
values 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, respectively.
.PP
The output image bands get their nbits and geo headers (if any)
from band 0 of the input image.  The lq headers of the output
image bands are all the same.  The min and max lq values are
the lowest and highest values found in the lq headers of
the input image.
.PP
NOTE:   coarse linear quantization can cause the "linear"
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	interpolation to be ragged.  To get a better linear
	approximation, add more bits of precision to band 0
	of the input image (with the IPW program requant).
.ft R
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIbands\fP
number of bands in output image.  This is the number of
"filled" bands to be interpolated between the two bands
of the input image.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	input image (default:stdin).  This image must have exactly
		two bands.  Bands of the output image are linearly
		interpolated between these two input bands.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The images "t.jan" and "t.feb" contain mean January and February
temperatures.  Assuming the mean temperature occurs on the
15th of the month, \fBfillbands\fP can be used to interpolate a
series of daily temperature images between Jan 15 and Feb 15:
.PP
Linearly interpolate the 30 days between 1/15 and 2/15:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux t.jan t.feb | fillbands -n 30 > t.between
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Attach the endpoints, making a 32-band image of linearly-
interpolated daily temperature:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux t.jan t.between t.feb > t.jan15-feb15
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None.
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
input image must have exactly 2 bands
.sp
.TP
both input bands must have exactly 2 lq breakpoints
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The input image must have an lq header for each band.
The lq headers of the input image must have exactly 2 breakpoints.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Nov 1994
 	Written by Rusty Dodson, MERSC, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None thus far.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBmux\fP,
\fBrequant\fP
