.TH "gelevrad" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBgelevrad\fP - beam and diffuse irradiance from elevation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBgelevrad\fP \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP \fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP \fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP \fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ]
      [ \fB-n\fP \fIbits\fP[,\fIbits\fP] ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Gelevrad is part of a family of large area, or "global", scale radiation
transfer simulation, and solar geometry calculation tools, developed
after the small-scale radiation transfer tools, developed at UCSB by
Jeff Dozier and Ralph Dubayah.
.PP
All of the global-scale radiation transfer tools are designated by
the "g" prefix in front of the small-scale tool's name.  These tools
assume that solar geometry, atmospheric properties, and sun rise and sun
set vary over the grid, and they also correct for earth curvature.
The global-scale radiation transfer tools can be applied to areas of
size, up to the entire earth.  The global-scale radiation transfer tools
were originally developed by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
at the Corvallis, Oregon, EPA lab, in the early 1990's.
.PP
Gelevrad is the "global" version of elevrad.  That is, it is designed
to be run over areas large enough so that solar geometry cannot be
assumed constant at a given time (areas larger than 0.25 to 0.5 deg
(lat,long) square).  It assumes that cos(solar zenith) is calculated
over the grid in geodetic coordinates using the program gshade.
It also allows a spatially distributed optical depth estimate (tau),
and mean surface albedo (which can be estimate from satellite imagery),
but constant value images could be used (see ftransform).  Over snow,
albedo can be estimated using the programs "albedo" for a constant
value, or "salbedo" for albedo over a grid.
.PP
Gelevrad calculates values for beam radiation (normal to sun)
and diffuse radiation (on a horizontal surface) as a function
of elevation, zenith angle, single-scattering albedo, scattering
asymmetry parameter and mean surface albedo.  It is mainly used
as a preprocessor for gtoporad.
.PP
The output image is a two-band image of beam and diffuse irradiance.
The output projection is the same as the input image.  Gelevrad doesn't
check the projection, but it should be geodetic.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
elevation of optical depth instrument (m)
.sp
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP
single-scattering albedo
.sp
.TP
\fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP
scattering asymmetry parameter
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP
exoatmospheric solar irradiance
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
mask image
.sp
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIbits\fP[,\fIbits\fP]
# output bits (default: same as band 0 of input); band 0 could
be different than band 1.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	4-band input image: (defaults to stdin)
.sp
		band	contents
		----------------
		0	elevation (m)
		1	cosine solar zenith angle
		2	mean surface albedo
		3	optical depth at z (m)
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To estimate solar beam and diffuse irradiance over a dem grid
representing the Columbia River basin for June 22, 1990, in the spectral
window of 0.58-0.68um, using values for the elevation of the optical
depth estimate, the single-scattering albedo, and scattering asymmetry
parameter, recommended for a relatively clean atmospherer
by Dozier (1980):
.PP
\fBgelevrad\fP \fB-z 100 \fB-w 0.85 \fB-g 0.55 \fB-s 150.214 image
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Research Laboratory, Corvallis OR
(modified version of IPW elevrad program written by
Jeff Dozier, UCSB)
.TP
Oct 1990
	Made tau (optical depth) an input image band instead of
an argument, K. Longley OSU, EPA ERL-C
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBggradient\fP,
\fBghorizon\fP,
\fBgradient\fP,
\fBgshade\fP,
\fBgsunlight\fP,
.PP
gtoporad, gtopquad.24, gtopquad, gviewf, gviewf-mp, hor1d, horizon,
salbedo, selevrad, solar, stoporad, sunang, sunlight, sunweights,
toporad, toporad.24, topquad, twostream, viewf
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
	snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
	vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
	radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
	Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dozier, J., J. Bruno, and P. Downey, "A faster solution to the
	horizon problem", Computers and Geosciences, volume 7,
	number 2, pp. 145-151, 1981.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain parameters
	for radiation modeling from digital elevation data". IEEE
	Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 28, no. 5,
	pp. 963-969.
.PP
Dubayah, R., J. Dozier, and F. Davis, 1990.  "Topographic distribution
	of clear-sky radiation over the Konza Prairie, Kansas".  Water
	Resources Research, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 679-691.
.PP
Marks, D., R. Dubayah, and K. Longley, 1991.  "Modeling the topographic
	and spectral variability of clear-sky solar radiation at regional
	to continental scales.  Proceedings 1991 IGARSS Symposium,
	Remote Sensing:  Global Monitoring for Earth Management, Espoo,
	Finland, Vol. 3, pp. 1711.
.PP
Dubayah, R., and V. Van Katwijk, 1992.  "The topographic distribution
	of annual incoming solar radiation in the Rio Grande basin".
	Geophysical Research Letters, vol. 19, pp. 2231-2234.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
	Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
	pp. 627-640.
