.TH "grhist" "1" "16 June 2008" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBgrhist\fP - graph an IPW histogram
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBgrhist\fP [\fIgraph-options\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBgrhist\fP reads an IPW histogram from the standard input, and writes a
graphic rendition of the histogram (using graph(1)) to the standard
output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIgraph-options\fP
Any command-line arguments are passed to graph(1).
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To compute and plot a histogram on the LaserWriter:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	hist image | grhist | lpr -g
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To plot a (precomputed) histogram on a Tektronix 4014:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	grhist <histogram | plot -T4014
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To compute a histogram and display on an X Windows display:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	hist image | grhist | xplot
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
grhist uses the graph command, but that command can't be found
The graph command is not available.  If it is installed, make sure your
PATH environment variable is set properly.  A free version of the command is
available in the GNU plotting package (http://www.gnu.org/software/plotutils/).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The output of \fBgrhist\fP is constrained by the output options of the
graph(1) program.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Apr 1993
Removed non standard empty quotes passed to graph. This
broke some graph programs.  Dana Jacobsen, CSC, ERL-C.
.sp
.TP
Jun 2008
The command now checks for the availability of the graph command, and if it's
the Unix graph command or GNU graph command.  James Domingo, Green Code LLC.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBbtoa\fP,
\fBhist\fP,
\fBhisteq\fP,
\fBprimg\fP,
\fBrmhdr\fP
.sp
.TP
UNIX:
awk, graph, plot
.sp
.TP
GNU:
plotutils, xplot, graph, graphics, gnuplot
.sp
.TP
Image:
pgmhist, ppmhist
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
