.TH "gtoporad.24" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBgtoporad.24\fP - topographically-corrected solar radiation for 24-hour period
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBgtoporad.24\fP [ \fB-n\fP ] \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP \fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP \fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP [ \fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP ]
      [ \fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP ] \fB-d\fP \fIy\fP,\fIm\fP,\fId\fP[,\fIh\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs\fP] \fB-i\fP \fIdelta_t\fP \fB-o\fP \fIout_prefix\fP
      [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Gtoporad.24 is part of a family of large area, or "global", scale
radiation transfer simulation, and solar/terrain geometry calculation
tools, designed from the small-scale radiation transfer and terrain
structure tools, developed at UCSB by Jeff Dozier, Jim Frew, and
Ralph Dubayah.
.PP
All of the global-scale radiation transfer and terrain processing tools
are designated by the "g" prefix in front of the small-scale tool's name.
These tools assume that solar geometry, atmospheric properties, and sun
rise and sun set vary over the grid.  They also correct for earth
curvature when computing horizons, terrain and sky view factors,
and illumantion angles.
.PP
These global-scale radiation and terrain processing tools can be applied
to areas of any size, up to the entire earth.  They were originally
developed by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University, at the Corvallis,
Oregon, EPA lab, in the early 1990's.
.PP
Gtoporad.24 is the global-scale version of the program toporad.24.
Gtoporad.24 is a shell script that sets up and calls gsunlight, gelevrad,
ghorizon, gshade, and gtoporad n times over a 24hour period, to
compute global-scale solar radiation over a topographic grid for a
full day, using a two-stream atmospheric radiation model.  The radiation
is computed and output every delta_t hours for a total of 24 hours.
The input image file has the following eight bands:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	elevation			(dem)
	slope				(from ggradient)
	azimuth				(from ggradient)
	sky view factor			(from gviewf)
	terrain configuration factor	(from gviewf)
	surface albedo			(from data, or salbedo)
	reflectance of substrate	(estimate or data)
	optical depth			(estimate or data)
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Band 0, 5, and 6 are estimated or from data, as in gtoporad, bands 1-4
are from other ipw programs, and band 7 is a spatially distributed
optical depth, as described in gelevrad.
.PP
The output images are called <out_prefix>.0 ...	<out_prefix>.n
(where n is 24/delta_t).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP
net radiation instead of incoming
.sp
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
elevation of optical depth measurement (see gelevrad)
.sp
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP
single-scattering albedo (see gelevrad)
.sp
.TP
\fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP
scattering asymmetry parameter (see gelevrad)
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP
exoatmospheric solar irradiance (see solar), or
.sp
.TP
\fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP
wavelength range, micrometers
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIy\fP,\fIm\fP,\fId\fP[,\fIh\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs\fP]
start date/time (year, month, day, hour, minute, second)
.sp
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIdelta_t\fP
time increment in hours
.sp
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIout_prefix\fP
prefix for output image names
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
mask image
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	input image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate net solar radiation from 0.58 to 0.68 um, every 3 hours
over the Columbia River basin, on June 21, 1990:
.PP
\fBgtoporad.24\fP \fB-n \fB-z 100 \fB-w 0.85 \fB-g 0.55 \fB-x 0.58,0.68 \fB-d 1990,06,21 \\
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
		-i 3.0 -o netrad -m col_mask input_image
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Oct 1990
	Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Protection Agency Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.TP
May 1991
	Working version with geodetic header in lat/long
projection, by K. Longley, OSU, EPA ERL-C
.TP
Dec 1993
	Changed -le to -lt so only 24 hours are run.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Jul 1995
	Added trap to remove temp files.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBgelevrad\fP,
\fBggradient\fP,
\fBghorizon\fP,
\fBgshade\fP,
\fBgsunlight\fP,
	\fBgviewf\fP,
\fBhorizon\fP,
\fBhor1d\fP,
\fBsalbedo\fP,
\fBshade\fP,
\fBsolar\fP,
\fBsunlight\fP,
\fBviewf\fP
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
	snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
	vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
	radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
	Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dozier, J., J. Bruno, and P. Downey, "A faster solution to the
	horizon problem", Computers and Geosciences, volume 7,
	number 2, pp. 145-151, 1981.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain parameters
	for radiation modeling from digital elevation data". IEEE
	Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 28, no. 5,
	pp. 963-969.
.PP
Dubayah, R., J. Dozier, and F. Davis, 1990.  "Topographic distribution
	of clear-sky radiation over the Konza Prairie, Kansas".  Water
	Resources Research, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 679-691.
.PP
Marks, D., R. Dubayah, and K. Longley, 1991.  "Modeling the topographic
	and spectral variability of clear-sky solar radiation at regional
	to continental scales.  Proceedings 1991 IGARSS Symposium,
	Remote Sensing:  Global Monitoring for Earth Management, Espoo,
	Finland, Vol. 3, pp. 1711.
.PP
Dubayah, R., and V. Van Katwijk, 1992.  "The topographic distribution
	of annual incoming solar radiation in the Rio Grande basin".
	Geophysical Research Letters, vol. 19, pp. 2231-2234.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
	Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
	pp. 627-640.
