.TH "gtopquad" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBgtopquad\fP - daily integrated radiation over a topographic grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBgtopquad\fP [ \fB-n\fP ] \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP \fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP \fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP [ \fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP ]
      [ \fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP ] [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ] [ \fB-k\fP \fIprefix\fP ] \fB-d\fP \fIy\fP,\fIm\fP,\fId\fP
      [ \fB-q\fP \fInpts\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Gtopquad is part of a family of large area, or "global", scale radiation
transfer simulation, and solar/terrain geometry calculation tools,
developed after the small-scale radiation transfer and terrain structure
tools, developed at UCSB by Jeff Dozier, Jim Frew, and Ralph Dubayah.
.PP
All of the global-scale radiation transfer tools are designated by
the "g" prefix in front of the small-scale tool's name.  These tools
assume that solar geometry, atmospheric properties, and sun rise and sun
set vary over the grid, and they also correct for earth curvature when
computing horizons, terrain and sky view factors, and illumantion angles.
.PP
These global-scale radiation and terrain processing tools can be applied
to areas of size, up to the entire earth.  The global-scale radiation
and terrain processing tools were originally developed by Kelly Longley,
Oregon State University, at the Corvallis, Oregon, EPA lab, in the early
1990's.
.PP
Gtopquad is the global-scale version of the program topquad.
Gtopquad computes daily integrated radiation over a global-scale
topographic grid, using a two-stream atmospheric radiation model and
21-point Kronrod quadrature between sunrise and sunset for each pixel.
It is implemented as a shell script which makes repeated calls to
gshade, gelevrad, gsunlight, gviewf, ghorizon, and gtoporad.
.PP
The input image file has eight bands in the following order:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	elevation			(dem data)
	slope				(from ggradient)
	azimuth				(from ggradient)
	sky view factor			(from gviewf)
	terrain configuration factor	(from gviewf)
	surface albedo			(estimate or data)
	reflectance of substrate	(estimate or data)
	optical depth			(estimate or data)
.ft R
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP
net radiation instead of incoming
.sp
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
elevation of optical depth measurement
.sp
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP
single-scattering albedo
.sp
.TP
\fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP
scattering asymmetry parameter
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIS0\fP
exoatmospheric solar irradiance (Wm^2, from pgm solar), or
.sp
.TP
\fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP
wavelength range, micrometers
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
mask image
.sp
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIprefix\fP
keep all radiation images from gtoporad; file names will be
<prefix>.0, ..., <prefix>.20
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIy\fP,\fIm\fP,\fId\fP
date (year, month, day)
.sp
.TP
\fB-q\fP \fInpts\fP
# Kronrod quadrature points (15 or 21; default: 21)
.PP
\fB-z, \fB-w, \fB-g, and \fB-d are required;  either \fB-s or \fB-x must be supplied.
.PP
Year must be complete (1994, not 94).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	eight-band input image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To simulate daily integrated radiation, in the visible portion of the
solar spectrum, for February 15, 1994, using standard values for elev
of optical depth measurement, single-scattering albedo, and scattering
asymmetry parameter:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	gtopquad -n -z 100 -w 0.85 -g 0.55 -x 0.28,0.7 -m basin_mask \\
		 -d 1994,02,15 input_image
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Either \fB-x, exoatmospheric solar irradiance, or \fB-x, wavelength range,
but not both, must be supplied.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Aug 1990
	Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Protection Agency Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.TP
Oct 1990
	Changed tau and R0 to input image bands instead of
arguments Kelly Longley, Oregon State University, ERL-C.
.TP
Jul 1995
	Added trap to remove temp files.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBalbedo\fP,
\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBgelevrad\fP,
\fBggradient\fP,
\fBghorizon\fP,
\fBgradient\fP,
	\fBgsunlight\fP,
\fBgshade\fP,
\fBgtoporad\fP,
\fBgviewf\fP,
\fBhorizon\fP,
\fBshade\fP,
\fBsolar\fP,
	\fBsunlight\fP,
\fBtoporad\fP,
\fBviewf\fP
.PP
Marks, D., and J. Dozier, 1979.  "A clear-sky longwave radiation model
	for remote alpine areas", Archiv fur Meteorologie, Geophysik
	und Bioklimatologie, Series B, vol. 27, no. 23, pp. 159-187.
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
	snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
	vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
	radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
	Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain parameters
	for radiation modeling from digital elevation data". IEEE
	Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 28, no. 5,
	pp. 963-969.
.PP
Dubayah, R., J. Dozier, and F. Davis, 1990.  "Topographic distribution
	of clear-sky radiation over the Konza Prairie, Kansas".  Water
	Resources Research, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 679-691.
.PP
Dozier, J., J. Bruno, and P. Downey, 1991.  "A faster solution to the
	horizon problem", Computers and Geosciences, volume 7,
	number 2, pp. 145-151.
.PP
Marks, D., R. Dubayah, and K. Longley, 1991.  "Modeling the topographic
	and spectral variability of clear-sky solar radiation at regional
	to continental scales.  Proceedings 1991 IGARSS Symposium,
	Remote Sensing:  Global Monitoring for Earth Management, Espoo,
	Finland, Vol. 3, pp. 1711.
.PP
Dubayah, R., and V. Van Katwijk, 1992.  "The topographic distribution
	of annual incoming solar radiation in the Rio Grande basin".
	Geophysical Research Letters, vol. 19, pp. 2231-2234.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
	Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
	pp. 627-640.
