.TH "histeq" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBhisteq\fP - make histogram-equalization look-up table for IPW histogram
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBhisteq\fP [ \fB-n\fP \fIsize\fP ] [ \fB-o\fP \fImin\fP,\fImax\fP ] [ \fB-i\fP \fImin\fP,\fImax\fP ]
      [ \fB-f\fP \fIfloor\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP \fIceil\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBhisteq\fP reads an IPW histogram from the standard input and writes
an IPW lookup table to the standard output.
.PP
The lookup table may be applied to the original image (with the
IPW command \fBlutx\fP) to produce a "histogram equalized" image
(i.e. an image with a nearly-flat histogram).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIsize\fP
number of elements in the histogram (default: 256)
.sp
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fImin\fP,\fImax\fP
minimum and maximum values to use from the input histogram
(default: 0, \fIsize\fP-1)
.sp
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fImin\fP,\fImax\fP
minimum and maximum values to appear in the output look-up
table (default: 0, \fIsize\fP-1)
.sp
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIfloor\fP
Have the output lookup table map input values less than the
specified minimum to \fIfloor\fP (default: output minimum)
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIceil\fP
Have the output lookup table map input values greater than the
specified maximum to \fIceil\fP (default: output maximum)
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To produce a histogram-equalized version of "image":
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	hist image | histeq | lutx -i image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
If "image" has 12-bit pixels, and the output image should have 8-bit
pixels, then replace the \fBhisteq\fP command above with:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	histeq -n 4096 -o 0,255
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To avoid having extreme values overwhelm the output mapping, they
could be excluded by specifying an input range:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	histeq -n 4096 -o 0,255 -i 1,4094
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
can't read histogram from a terminal
.TP
can't write lut to a terminal
\fBhisteq\fP will not read from or write to a terminal.
.sp
.TP
bad option causes 0-bit output values
.TP
bad option causes \fInbytes\fP-byte output values
One or more of the options would have resulted in a lookup
table with pixels outside the permissable size range of
1 .. 32 bits.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \fB-n option exists only because \fBhisteq\fP is implemented as a
shell script and does not read the histogram's header.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Mar 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Nov 1990
Changed input syntax, James Frew, UCSB.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBclasseq\fP,
\fBcnhist\fP,
\fBcnhist.all\fP,
\fBgrhist\fP,
\fBhist\fP,
\fBlutx\fP
.sp
.TP
UNIX:
awk
.sp
.TP
Image:
ppmhist, xv
.PP
Pratt 1991 (pp 275-284),
Frew 1990
.br
