.TH "hist" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBhist\fP - histogram for an IPW image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBhist\fP [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBhist\fP reads an IPW image (default: standard input) and computes its
histogram.  The histogram is written to the standard output as a
single-line IPW image, whose sample offsets represent the pixel values
in the input image, and whose pixel values are frequency counts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
histogram only those pixels which are non-zero in \fImask\fP.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
input image (default: standard input)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Given a DEM "elev" and a drainage basin mask "basin", the following
command will calculate a histogram of the elevations within the
basin:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	hist -m basin elev
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To generate a single-band histogram and convert it to text for
further processing by non-IPW software:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	demux -b {band} | hist | rmhdr | bin2text -4
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
different size pixels: bands 0,\fIband\fP
All input bands must have the same number of bits and
bytes per pixel.  This is because the number of possible
pixel values in the input image governs the number of
samples in the single output line.
.sp
.TP
mask is not same size as input image
If \fB-m is specified, then \fImask\fP must have the same number
of lines and samples as the input image.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jan 1989
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Nov 1990
Output pixel size in each band is minimum necessary
to hold the largest output value.  James Frew, UCSB.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBbin2text\fP,
\fBclasseq\fP,
\fBcnhist\fP,
\fBcnhist.all\fP,
\fBgrhist\fP,
\fBhisteq\fP,
\fBrmhdr\fP
.sp
.TP
Image:
imhist, pgmhist, ppmhist, rlehisto, fbhist, xv
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
