.TH "iadd" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBiadd\fP - perform addition or subtraction on pixels (DEPRECIATED)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBiadd\fP [ \fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIbands\fP,\fI...\fP ] [ \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBiadd\fP reads a multi-band \fIimage\fP and
writes the sum of its bands on the standard output.  For each
input sample, the corresponding output sample is:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	p[0] + p[1] + ... + p[nbands-1]
.ft R
.fi
.PP
where \fIp\fP is the input pixel value and \fInbands\fP is the number of
input bands.
.PP
To effect subtraction, specified bands are converted to negatives
before addition.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP
Use \fInbits\fP bits per output pixel (default: maximum number of
bits per input pixel).
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIbands\fP,\fI...\fP
Use the negative of the pixel value in the specified bands.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
multi-band input image (default: standard input)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To add two single-band images together:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     mux image1 image2 | iadd
.ft R
.fi
.PP
To subtract band 1 from band 0 of a 2-band image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     iadd -s 1
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\fB-s \fIband\fP: not that many bands
A nonexistent input band was specified with \fB-s.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This command has been DEPRECIATED because its functionality
is provided by the command \fBimath\fP.
This command may be removed in future versions of IPW.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by Danny Marks, ERL-C.
.sp
.TP
Apr 1993
Doesn't blow up on result-0 images.  Ran through Purify.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBimath\fP,
\fBlincom\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBmux\fP,
\fBscale\fP
