.TH "imath" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBimath\fP - calculate an arithmetic expression over each sample's pixels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBimath\fP [ \fB-expr\fP \fIstring\fP ] [ \fB-file\fP \fIstring\fP ] \fB-minmax\fP \fImin,max\fP
     [ \fB-units\fP \fIstring\fP ] [ \fB-bits\fP \fIn\fP ] [ \fB-mask\fP \fIimage\fP ] [ \fB-lines\fP \fIn\fP ]
     [ \fB-samps\fP \fIn\fP ] [ \fB-names\fP \fIname,...\fP ] [ \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBimath\fP calculates an arithmetic expression for each sample
in an input image.  The results are written to standard output as a
single-band image.
.PP
The expression is made up of operators and operands.
The following arithmetic operators are recognized:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Arithmetic operators

     +     addition
     -     subtraction
     *     multiplication
     /     division
     ^     exponentation
     -     negation (unary operator)
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Each operator has one or more operands as arguments.  An operand is
a basic component or term in the expression.  There are four types
of operands: numbers, special variables, band-references, and functions.
.PP
Numbers are just numeric constants.  A number is either an integer or
or a floating-point value.  A floating-point value is a number with
a decimal point, or a number in scientific notation with an exponent.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Examples of floating-point numbers

     .9345
     -12.08
     5e3          (= 5 * 10^3 = 5 * 1000 = 5000)
     -.3E-11
.ft R
.fi
No whitespace is allowed before or after the letter "e" in the scientific
notation.  A negative number has a leading minus sign ("-"),
but a positive number has no leading plus sign.
.PP
There are several pre-defined variables that can be used in expressions:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Special variables

     pi
     e		(base of natural logarithms)
     nbands     (number of bands in input image)
     sum        (sum of all bands of current sample)
     min        (minimum of all bands of current sample)
     max        (maximum of all bands of current sample)
     median     (median of all bands of current sample)
.ft R
.fi
.PP
A band reference denotes a particular pixel of the input sample.
A band reference is the word "band" concatenated with an unsigned integer.
Bands are numbered starting at 0, so the first band is "band0", the second band
is "band1", and so on.  The word "band" can be shortened to just the letter
"b", e.g., "b0", "b3".
.PP
A second form of a band reference uses a bracket notation.  This form has
the word "band" (or "b") followed by an expression surrounded by brackets,
i.e., "[" expression "]".
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Examples of the bracket form of band references

     band[0]
     band [ b0 ]     (band 0 selects which band is referenced)
     b[nbands-1]     (fetch the last band)
.ft R
.fi
Whitespace may be used before and after the brackets.
.PP
The \fB-names\fP option can be used to specify names for the bands
that can be used as alternatives to standard band references.
.PP
Various standard mathematical functions can be used in expressions.
A function has an associated list of one or more arguments.  Each
argument to a function can be any valid expression.  The list of
arguments follows the function's name as a parenthesized list separated
by commas.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    Functions

    min(\fIx\fP, ...)       minimum of a list of values
    max(\fIx\fP, ...)       maximum of a list of values
    median(\fIx\fP, ...)    median of a list of values

    log(\fIx\fP)            natural logarithm of \fIx\fP
    log10(\fIx\fP)          base 10 logarithm of \fIx\fP

    cos(\fIx\fP)            cosine of \fIx\fP  (\fIx\fP in radians)
    sin(\fIx\fP)            sine of \fIx\fP    (\fIx\fP in radians)
    tan(\fIx\fP)            tangent of \fIx\fP (\fIx\fP in radians)

    arccos(\fIx\fP)         arc cosine of \fIx\fP
    arcsin(\fIx\fP)         arc sine of \fIx\fP
    arctan(\fIx\fP)         arc tangent of \fIx\fP

    trunc(\fIx\fP)          integer portion of \fIx\fP
    round(\fIx\fP)          round \fIx\fP to nearest integer
.ft R
.fi
.PP
The conditional operator is a trinary operator that selects one of two
possible expressions based upon the value of a third expression.  The
format of the conditional operator is:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     expression1 ? expression2 : expression3
.ft R
.fi
.PP
The first expression is called the "conditional expression".  It is evaluated
first.  If the result is non-zero, then the second expression is evaluated.
If the result of the conditional expression is 0, then the third expression
is evaluated.
.PP
A conditional expression usually contains one or more relational operators.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Relational operators

     =      equality
     !=     non-equality
     <>     non-equality

     <      less than
     <=     less than or equal to
     =<     less than or equal to

     >      greater than or equal to
     >=     greater than or equal to
     =>     greater than or equal to
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Each relation operator yields either 1 or 0 as result (1 if the relation
between the operands is true; 0 if the relation is false).
.PP
More complex conditional expressions can be built using logical operators.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Logical operators

     not    logical negation (non-zero becomes 0; 0 becomes 1)
     !      logical negation

     and    logical AND (returns 1 if both operands are non-zero)
     &&     logical AND

     or     logical OR (returns 1 if either operand is non-zero)
     ||     logical OR
.ft R
.fi
.PP
In an expression with 2 or more different operators, the interpretation
of the expression is controlled by the operators' precedence.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     Precedence of operators

     Highest    unary -
                ^
                *, /
                +, -
                =, !=, <>, <, <=, =<, >, >=, =>
                not, !
                and, &&, or, ||
     Lowest     ?:
.ft R
.fi
.PP
The precedence of operators can be overridden with the use of parenthenses;
for example:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
      band0 * (7 + band1)
.ft R
.fi
.PP
Almost all the operators associate from left to right; therefore, the
expression
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     x \fIop\fP y \fIop\fP z
.ft R
.fi
.PP
is interpreted as
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     ( x \fIop\fP y ) \fIop\fP z
.ft R
.fi
.PP
The exceptions is the exponentation operator ("^") which
associates from right to left; therefore, the expression
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     x ^ y ^ z
.ft R
.fi
.PP
is interpreted as
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     x ^ ( y ^ z )
.ft R
.fi
.PP
If an expression is read from a text file with \fB-file\fP option, then
comments can be placed in the file.  A comment begins with the "#" character
and extends to the end of the current line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-expr\fP \fIstring\fP
\fIstring\fP is the arithmetic expression to calculate over
every sample of the input image.  Note: if the string contains spaces,
it will need to be quoted to indicate it's a single string to the shell.
.sp
.TP
\fB-file\fP \fIstring\fP
\fIstring\fP is the name of a text file containing the arithmetic
expression.  Use "-" to specify standard input.
.PP
Either \fB-expr\fP or \fB-file\fP must be specified.
.TP
\fB-minmax\fP \fImin,max\fP
\fImin\fP and \fImax\fP are the minimum and maximum floating-point
pixel values for the output image's LQ header.
.sp
.TP
\fB-units\fP \fIstring\fP
Use \fIstring\fP as the units string in the output image's LQ
header (default: no units string).
.sp
.TP
\fB-bits\fP \fIn\fP
Use \fIn\fP as the number of bits for the output image
(default: 8).
.sp
.TP
\fB-mask\fP \fIimage\fP
Use \fImask\fP as a mask image.  Calculations are performed only for
those points in the input image whose corresponding points in \fImask\fP
are not 0.
.sp
.TP
\fB-lines\fP \fIn\fP
Set the number of lines in the output image to \fIn\fP (default: 1).
.sp
.TP
\fB-samps\fP \fIn\fP
Set the number of lines in the output image to \fIn\fP (default: 1).
.PP
Note: options \fB-lines\fP and \fB-samps\fP can only be used when
the expression is a constant expression (i.e., it reduces to a single
number), and when no input image is specified.
.TP
\fB-names\fP \fIname,...\fP
Specify names for the bands that can be used in the expression.  The
first \fIname\fP refers to band 0, the second \fIname\fP refers to
band 1, and so on.  A valid band name is a letter followed by zero or
more letters, digits, and underscores.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
Use \fIimage\fP as the input image (default: standard input unless
the expression is a constant expression; in this case, the default
is no input image).
.SH EXAMPLES
First, some examples of expressions.
.PP
To add the first two bands of an image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     -expr "b0 + b1"
.ft R
.fi
.PP
To extract the third band of an image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     -expr b3
.ft R
.fi
The above example is equivalent to a \fBdemux\fP command; however,
it's slower.
.PP
To make an image of a constant value -4.5 for every point:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     -expr -4.5
.ft R
.fi
.PP
To create a mask for all the points where the first band is
positive:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     imath -expr "b0 > 0 ? 1 : 0" -minmax 0,1 < \fIimage\fP
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
\fBPossible messages during initialization:\fP
.sp
.TP
minimum >= maximum in LQ header
.sp
.TP
can't open input image
.sp
.TP
can't access standard input for input image
.sp
.TP
nbits must be between 1 and %d
.sp
.TP
can't access standard output for output image
.sp
\fBPossible messages while checking expression:\fP
.sp
.TP
empty expression
The string argument to \fB-expr\fP has no expression.
.sp
.TP
Missing digit(s) after decimal point
.sp
.TP
Missing exponent
A floating-point number in scientific notation is missing the integer
after the letter "e".
.sp
.TP
Invalid word or symbol
Invalid character(s) found in the expression.
.sp
.TP
Expected a basic expression operand
.sp
.TP
Expected '-' or a basic expression operand
.sp
.TP
Expected operand or '('
.sp
.TP
Expected '['
.sp
.TP
Expected ']'
.sp
.TP
Expected '('
.sp
.TP
Expected ','
.sp
.TP
Expected ')'
.sp
.TP
Expected colon ':'
.sp
.TP
Expected expression
\fBPossible message while calculating the expression:\fP
.sp
.TP
Division by zero
.sp
.TP
Accessing band %d, but only %d band%s
Encountered a band reference that refers to a non-existant band.
.sp
.TP
Negative band index: %d
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Nov 1997
Written by J. Domingo, OSU
.TP
Apr 1998
Added the \fB-file\fP option.  J. Domingo, OSU
.TP
Jun 1998
Added the min, max, and median functions.  J. Domingo, OSU
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBbitcom\fP
\fBiadd\fP,
\fBlincom\fP
\fBmult\fP,
\fBscale\fP,
