.TH "imgsum" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBimgsum\fP - sum all pixels in an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBimgsum\fP [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ] [ \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBimgsum\fP reads a single band image and
writes the sum of all unmasked pixels to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
Use \fImask\fP as a mask image.  Any points in \fImask\fP that
are 0 will not contribute to the sum.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
input image (default: standard input)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If the file "precip" contains yearly precipitation volume for an
area, and "basin" is a mask of a watershed, then the following
command will give the total precipitation influx into the basin:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        imgsum -m basin  precip
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Note that this works only for volume data.  If your data is a
depth, then you must first multiply each point by the area of
the pixel.  This only works for Equal-Area projections however.
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
image has \fIbands\fP bands; single band images only
Only single band images are supported.  To sum multiple
images, use \fBiadd\fP to add the bands together first.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Nov 1990
Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Research Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.sp
.TP
Apr 1993
Corrected "too many bands" message.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Susceptible to overflow error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBiadd\fP,
\fBimgstat\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBscale\fP
