.TH "ipw2pbm" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBipw2pbm\fP - convert IPW image to PGM or PPM formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBipw2pbm\fP [\fI image \fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBipw2pbm\fP reads \fIimage\fP (default: standard input) and writes its
equivalent to the standard output in either the PGM "portable graymap"
format (if \fIimage\fP has 1 band) or the PPM "portable pixmap" format (if
\fIimage\fP has 3 bands).
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fI image \fP]
	image	1- or 3-band input image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display an IPW image using "xv" on an X window system display:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	ipw2pbm image | xv
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To display a 3-band IPW image as a color image using xli:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux red green blue | ipw2pbm | xli stdin
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
The following diagnostics indicate violations of restrictions imposed
by the PGM or PPM image formats:
.sp
.TP
\fInbits\fP-bit pixels (must be <= 8)
.br
	"raw"-format PGM or PPM images cannot have more than 8 bits
	per pixel
.sp
.TP
\fInbands\fP bands (must be either 1 or 3)
.br
	PGM images must have 1 band.  PPM images must have 3 bands.
.sp
.TP
pixel sizes differ: bands 0, \fIband\fP
.br
	All 3 bands in a PPM image must have the same number of bits
	per pixel.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Nov 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBdither\fP,
\fBipw2hds\fP,
\fBipw2ps\fP,
\fBipw2pgm\fP,
\fBipw2ppm\fP,
\fBipw2sun\fP,
\fBipw2xim\fP,
	\fBpbm2ipw\fP
.TP
UNIX
	pbm, pgm, ppm
.TP
Image
	xli, xloadimage, xv
.PP
"PBMPLUS -- Extended Portable Bitmap Toolkit", Jef Poskanzer,
	10 December, 1991.  Anonymous ftp from export.lcs.mit.edu:
	/contrib/pbmplus.tar.Z.
.PP
xv and xloadimage are also available on export.lcs.mit.edu.
.PP
versions of xv, xli, and xloadimage that will read ipw formats directly
are available via ftp from morpheus.cor.epa.gov
.PP
Frew, J., 1990.  The Image Processing Workbench.  Ph.D. Thesis,
	Department of Geography, University of California, Santa
	Barbara, CA, 382pp.
