.TH "ipw2pgm" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBipw2pgm\fP - convert IPW image to Portable Gray Map (PGM) image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
 \fIipw2ppm \fP[\fI-v\fP]\fI \fP[\fI-m mask\fP]\fI \fP[\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBipw2pgm\fP reads an IPW image and outputs a PGM image suitable for
processing by other image processing or image manipulation
packages.  The IPW data values are scaled to between 0 and 255
and then written as a PGM image.  For 1-byte IPW images, no
scaling is necessary and the program operates much faster.
.PP
The program ipw2ppm is a more general form of this program, but
can run significantly slower.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fP
\fBipw2pgm\fP will print the dimensions of the image to the
standard error.
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP
Use \fImask\fP as a mask image.  Any points in \fImask\fP that are
0 will have the corresponding points in the output image
set to 0 (black).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIipw2ppm \fP[\fI-v\fP]\fI \fP[\fI-m mask\fP]\fI \fP[\fIimage\fP]
	image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To convert "900315.ipw" to a PGM image using "col.mask" as a mask.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	ipw2pgm  -m col.mask  900315.ipw
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
image must have 1 band.
.br
	Only single band images are supported.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Only binary PGM images are output.  No support for ASCII PGM
images is planned.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Mar 1993
	Written by Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.  Based on \fIipw2ppm\fP.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBipw2hds\fP,
\fBipw2ppm\fP,
\fBipw2pbm\fP,
\fBipw2ps\fP,
\fBipw2sun\fP,
\fBipw2xim\fP,
\fBipw2xyz\fP,
	\fBpbm2ipw\fP
.TP
Image
	PPM, PGM, PNM, xv, xli, xloadimage, pnmtops
.PP
"PBMPLUS -- Extended Portable Bitmap Toolkit", Jef Poskanzer,
10 December, 1991.  Anonymous ftp from export.lcs.mit.edu:
/contrib/pbmplus.tar.Z.
