.TH "ipw2ps" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBipw2ps\fP - convert IPW image to PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBipw2ps\fP [ \fB-r\fP ] [ \fB-w\fP \fIwidth\fP ] [ \fB-h\fP \fIheight\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBipw2ps\fP converts the input IPW image to a PostScript stream suitable
for rendering the image on a PostScript output device (e.g. Apple
LaserWriter, Sun NeWS, etc.).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Rotate the image 90 degrees on output.  This is useful to
maximize the displayed size of an image that is wider than it
is high.
.sp
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIheight\fP
The PostScript image should be no more than \fIheight\fP inches
high (default: 9.5).
.sp
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIwidth\fP
The PostScript image should be no more than \fIwidth\fP inches
wide (default: 7.0).
.PP
Note that \fB-h and \fB-w define a bounding box for the PostScript image.
.PP
They do NOT change the image's aspect ratio.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To render "image" on a PostScript printer:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	ipw2ps image | lpr
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
image height \fIheight\fP too large (max 11 inches)
image width \fIwidth\fP too large (max 8.5 inches)
.br
	The output PostScript image must fit on an 8.5 by 11 inch
	sheet of paper.
.sp
.TP
image height \fIheight\fP too small
image width \fIwidth\fP too small
.br
	\fIheight\fP and \fIwidth\fP must be greater than 0.
.sp
.TP
input image must have only 1 band
input image must have only 1 byte per pixel
.br
	These are limitations imposed by PostScript's "image"
	operator.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The input image must have only one band.
.PP
PostScript output devices use halftone screening to simulate multiple
gray levels.  Aliasing will occur as the pixel density of the output
image approaches the halftone screen frequency.
.PP
Alternatives to \fBipw2ps\fP exist.  The program ipw2pgm will convert IPW
images to a PGM image which can be converted to PostScript through
a filter by pnmtops, or with a GUI using interactive scaling using
xv.  The program ipw2ppm can be used to create color images.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.TP
May 1993
	Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
doesn't create "standard" post script
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBipw2hds\fP,
\fBipw2pbm\fP,
\fBipw2pgm\fP,
\fBipw2ppm\fP,
\fBipw2sun\fP,
\fBipw2xim\fP
.TP
UNIX
	lpr
.TP
Image
	pnmtops, ras2ps, rash, rletops, tiff2ps, xli, xloadimage, xv
