.TH "isposint" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW Shell-Library Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBisposint\fP - is argument a positive nonzero integer?
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBisposint\fP \fIargument\fP
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBisposint\fP tests whether its single argument is a postive nonzero
decimal integer.  This command
is used mainly as an argument checker by IPW shell scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIargument\fP
Argument to test.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Here's a segment of a shell script that check for certain options that
require positive integers for arguments:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     optstring='i:o:k:'
     synopsis='[-i in_nbits] [-o out_nbits] [-k bkgd]'

     # get command-line arguments

     set -- `getopt "$optstring" $* 2>/dev/null` ||
             exec usage $0 "$synopsis" 'make look-up table'

     while :; do
        case $1 in
        --)  shift
             break
             ;;
        -i)  ibits=$2
             isposint $ibits ||
                  exec sherror $0 "$ibits: not a positive integer"
             shift
             ;;
        -o)  obits=$2
             isposint $obits ||
                  exec sherror $0 "$obits: not a positive integer"
             shift
             ;;
        -k)  const=$2
             isposint $const ||
                  exec sherror $0 "$const: not a positive integer"
             shift
             ;;
        *)   exec sherror $pgm '"getopt" failed'
             ;;
        esac
        shift
     done
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
\fBisposint\fP returns an exit status that indicates whether or
not the argument is a positive integer.
.TP
0
\fIargument\fP is a positive nonzero integer.
.TP
1
\fIargument\fP is not a positive nonzero integer.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Nov 1990
Written by J. Frew, UCSB.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
