.TH "istatgraph" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBistatgraph\fP - plot two images and the interpolations from 'istatrel' command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBistatgraph\fP [ \fB-v\fP ] [ \fB-n\fP \fInumber\fP ] [ \fB-r\fP ] [ \fB-p\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP ]
      [ \fB-k\fP \fIkeypos\fP ] \fIimage1 image2\fP [ -- \fIistatrel options\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBistatgraph\fP reads two IPW images and plots a graph of the two,
along with a number of lines showing the successive interpolating
polynomials that
\fBistatrel\fP
generates.  If no options are given to
\fBistatrel\fP,
the interpolation used will be the next to the last polynomial order.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fP
\fBistatgraph\fP will print extra information on the standard
error.  This includes progress information, as well as
information about the number of points being plotted.  For
very large images this is useful to see how far along the
program is.
.sp
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInumber\fP
Plot close to \fInumber\fP (default: 1000) points.  The more
points are used the more accurate the plot will be, but
the longer it will take to compute.  In general, values
of over 10,000 will lead to significant waits, while
values near 1,000 yield a good compromise.
.sp
.TP
\fB-r\fP
When reducing the number of points to be plotted, use the
resamp program instead of zoom.  resamp takes the average
of points rather then subsampling (dropping points), so
might give a different effect.
.sp
.TP
\fB-p\fP
Generate postscript output instead of displaying an X
window.
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP
Generate color postscript.
.sp
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIkeypos\fP
Use \fIkeypos\fP as the position for the plot key (default:
upper-right corner).  \fIkeypos\fP should be a pair of values
specifying the key's (x,y) position using the image data
values.  The key text will be to the left of the \fIx\fP point
and the example lines and points will be on the right.  The
first line of text will be on the \fIy\fP point.
.sp
.TP
\fB--\fP
Stop processing of arguments.  This should be used if
further arguments meant for
\fBistatrel\fP
are to be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage1 image2\fP
input images
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To see what the relationship between elevation and AVHRR channel 4
irradiance is, what sort of relationship istatrel will generate,
and a quick data analysis by ipwinterp:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        istatgraph -v elev.ipw ch4.ipw
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To print this same graph:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        istatgraph -p elev.ipw ch4.ipw | lpr
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To see the relationship between "et.gs.ipw" and "wbi.ipw", moving
the key down to the lower right corner, and giving istatrel a -t
option to lower the shutoff tolerance so another interpolation
is done:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	istatgraph -k -500,-2700 et.gs.ipw wbi.ipw -- -t 0.0001
.ft R
.fi

.PP
For a pair of very large images it might be nice to be verbose, use
the memory-saving option of \fBistatrel\fP, and limit the maximum order of
the plot to 2:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	istatgraph -v image1 image2 -- -s -M 2
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The plotted interpolations from istatrel are computed by running
istatrel on the original images, not the reduced images.  The
point of reducing the images is to speed up the plotting process,
not to reduce the data used by
\fBistatrel\fP.
.PP
The "quick data analysis" printed by
\fBipwinterp\fP
is based on empirical
evidence, so don't put too much faith in what it says.  See its
man page for an explanation of the diagnostics.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Apr 1993
Written by Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBistatrel\fP,
\fBipwinterp\fP,
\fBzoom\fP,
\fBresamp\fP,
\fBprimg\fP
.TP
UNIX:
perl, gnuplot, wc
