.TH "itrim" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBitrim\fP - trim image values based on min/max threshold (DEPRECIATED)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBitrim\fP \fB-v\fP \fIval\fP,\fIval\fP [ \fB-n\fP \fInodata\fP ] [ \fB-p\fP \fInbits\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP ] [ \fB-b\fP ]
      [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program trims values from an image (single or multi-band)
which are not within a specified output range (omin, omax).
Input pixel values which are
>= omin and <= omax will be preserved in the output image.  Input
pixel values which are outside the min,max range will be output
as one of the following:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    -   zero:  this is the default nodata value.
.ft R
.fi

.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    -   the {nodata} value specified by -n
.ft R
.fi

.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    - 	if -c (cap mode) is set, then output values are capped
	at the min,max range.
.ft R
.fi

.PP
If the \fB-b option (binary mode) is set, then the output image will
be a binary (0,1) mask, where values within min,max are 1's and
all other values are 0's.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fP \fIval\fP,\fIval\fP
\fIval,val\fP are min,max values for the output image.
To use the lowest/highest input image value, enter "x"
for the min or max value.
.sp
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInodata\fP
nodata value (default: 0)
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP
cap mode: set values > max to max, values < min to min
(default: values > max or < min get nodata)
.sp
.TP
\fB-b\fP
binary mode: output image will be a 0-1 binary mask.
Values within the min,max range are set to 1, all
others set to 0.
.sp
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fInbits\fP
precision:  use \fInbits\fP in the output image.  (default: 8)
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Given an image of temperatures called tavg.ipw:
.PP
To make an image containing only temperatures within -10,10,
with outside values set to -99:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	itrim -v -10,10 -n -99 tavg.ipw
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To make a mask which delineates all negative temperatures:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	itrim -v x,-0.0001 -b tavg.ipw
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To cap very cold (< -40) temperatures at -40:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	itrim -v -40,x -c tavg.ipw
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To compute growing degree days for the 12-band image tavg.mon.ipw,
using a threshold of 5.0 degrees:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        scale -o sub -v 5.0 tavg.mon.ipw                    \\
            | itrim -v 0,x                                  \\
            | lincom -c 31,28,31,30,31,30,31,31,30,31,30,31 \\
            | iadd                                          \\
            > gdd.ipw
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
may specify no more than 1 of: \fB-c,\fB-b,\fB-n
.br
	The \fB-c,\fB-b,\fB-n options are mutually exclusive.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This command has been DEPRECIATED because its functionality
is provided by the command \fBimath\fP.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    itrim -c --> imath -expr "b0 < min ? min : b0 > max ? max : b0"
    itrim -n --> imath -expr "b0 < min or b0 > max ? nodata : b0"
    itrim -b --> imath -expr "b0 < min or b0 > max ? 0 : 1"
.ft R
.fi
.PP
This command may be removed in future versions of IPW.
.PP
Beware when using \fBitrim\fP on categorical data with lq headers.
E.g., due to quantization, category 10 may be stored as 10.013
and thus fall outside of a requested 1,10 range.  Using a
range of 0.5,10.5 would successfully get the values 1-10.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Oct 1995
	 Rusty Dodson, MERSC, NHEERL-WED.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBimath\fP,
\fBscale\fP,
\fBiadd\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBlincom\fP,
\fBiinterp\fP
