.TH "lincom" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBlincom\fP - linear combination of pixels (DEPRECIATED)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBlincom\fP [ \fB-c\fP \fIcoef\fP,\fI...\fP ] [ \fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBlincom\fP reads a multi-band image (default: standard input) and
writes a linear combination of its bands to the standard output.
For each input sample, the corresponding output sample is:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	p[0] * k[0] + ... + p[nbands-1] * k[nbands-1]
.ft R
.fi

.PP
where p is the input pixel value, k is a user-specified
coefficient, and nbands is the number of input bands.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcoef\fP,\fI...\fP
per-band coefficients (default: 1/nbands).  If only one
coefficient is specified, the same coefficient is used for
all bands.  Otherwise, the number of coefficients must be a
multiple of nbands.  If the number of coefficients is larger
than nbands, each successive group of coefficients will be
used to create a new output band.
.sp
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP
Use \fInbits\fP bits per output pixel (default: maximum number
of bits per input pixel).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
input image (default: standard input)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create an average of all the input bands:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	lincom
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To subtract band 1 from band 0 of a 2-band image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	lincom -c 1,-1
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To create a 2-band output image from a 2-band input image, in
which the first output band is a sum and the second output band
is a difference:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	lincom -c .5,.5,1,-1
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
# coefficients specified = \fIncoef\fP; must be 0, 1, or modulo nbands
The number of coefficients specified must be 0, 1, or a
multiple of the number of bands in the input image.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This command has been DEPRECIATED because its functionality
is provided by the command \fBimath\fP.
This command may be removed in future versions of IPW.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Aug 1992
Use obands instead of nbands in gethdrs.  Kelly Longley, ERL-C.
.sp
.TP
Apr 1993
Resolve minval == maxval problem.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.sp
.TP
May 1993
Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBbitcom\fP,
\fBbitcom\fP,
\fBiadd\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBscale\fP
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
