.TH "lqhx" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBlqhx\fP - modify an IPW image's linear quantization wth new LQ header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBlqhx\fP [ \fB-h\fP \fIheader\fP ] [ \fB-i\fP \fIimage\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBlqhx\fP copies \fIimage\fP to the standard output, requantizing its
pixels according to the quantization parameters of the \fIheader\fP
image.  Specifically, the output bands will have the same pixel
sizes as \fIheader\fP, and will receive (and be quantized according
to) any corresponding "lq" (linear quantization) headers in
\fIheader\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIheader\fP
Read quantization parameters from \fIheader\fP (default:
standard input).  Pixel size information (number of
bytes, number of bits) is obtained from the BIH (basic
image header).  Any "lq" headers in \fIheader\fP (there must
be at least one) are copied to the output image.  Any
other headers or image data in \fIheader\fP is ignored.
.sp
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIimage\fP
Read image data from \fIimage\fP (default: standard input).
.PP
At least one of \fB-h and/or \fB-i must be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To requantize "image2" to the same pixel sizes and ranges of
values as in "image1":
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	lqhx -h image1 -i image2
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To requantize a single-band "image" such that the input values
0 .. 1 are distributed over 10 bits:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mkbih -s 1 -l 1 -i 10 -f  |  mklqh -m 0,0,1023,1 -f  | \\
		lqhx -i image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Note that the -s and -l options are required by mkbih, even
though those header fields are subsequently ignored.
.SH FILES
.PP
None
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
new LQH not valid
.br
	The \fIheader\fP file has an invalid "lq" header, or does not
	have any "lq" headers.
.sp
.TP
input image and LQH file have different # bands
.br
	The \fIheader\fP and \fIimage\fP files must have the same number
	of bands.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\fBlqhx\fP does not check that the quantization borrowed from \fIheader\fP
is appropriate for \fIimage\fP, i.e., that the pixel values in \fIimage\fP
lie in the ranges specified by the "lq" headers in \fIheader\fP.
Pixels below (above) the range of output values will be set to
the lowest (highest) output value.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
Apr 1993
	Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Aug 1997
	Converted to IPW Version 2.0, D. Marks, USGS, ERL-C
.SH BUGS
.PP
None
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBlutx\fP,
\fBmkbih\fP,
\fBmklqh\fP,
\fBrequant\fP
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
