.TH "mksunh" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBmksunh\fP - add a solar position (SUN) header to an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBmksunh\fP \fB-z\fP \fIcosz\fP \fB-a\fP \fIazimuth\fP [ \fB-f\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmksunh\fP constructs an IPW solar position header (SUNH) and inserts it
into the headers of \fIimage\fP (default: standard input).  If the
specified bands already have SUN headers, they are overridden, and a
warning message is generated.
.PP
If the \fB-f option is specified, then only the headers are written to
the standard output, and any input image data is ignored.
.PP
The "sun" header will always be applied to all bands of the image.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIcosz\fP
The cosine of the solar zenith angle is \fIcosz\fP.
.sp
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIazimuth\fP
The solar azimuth is \fIazimuth\fP, in radians from south,
positive east.
.sp
.TP
\fB-f\fP
Force header output only.  Do not attempt to copy pixel
data from \fIimage\fP to the standard output.  Note that there
must still be at least an input BIH, and any input headers
(except superseded "sun" headers) will still be copied to
the standard output.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage\fP
input satellite image (default: standard input)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create a "sun" header for a Landsat image acquired with a solar
elevation of 57 degrees and a solar compass bearing of 119 degrees:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mksunh -z 0.838671 -a 1.064651 image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
where  0.838671 = cos(90-57)  and  1.064651 = (180-119) * (PI/180)
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.sp
.TP
Apr 1993
Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBmkbih\fP,
\fBmk*h\fP,
\fBprhdr\fP,
\fBrmhdr\fP
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
