.TH "msurfprep" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBmsurfprep\fP - make nearest-neighbor information for 'msurface' command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBmsurfprep\fP [ \fB-n\fP \fIneighbors\fP ] [ \fB-h\fP \fIheader\fP ] [ \fB-g\fP ]  \fB-p\fP \fIpoints\fP \fIfile\fP
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmsurfprep\fP works in conjunction with the msurface program to
provide a much faster means of interpolating multiple surfaces from
the same set of input data points.
.PP
\fBmsurfprep\fP reads an ASCII file of point locations and produces an output
image which stores nearest neighbor information.  Each pixel in
the output image contains the index (from zero to npoints-1) of
the n'th nearest point in {points file}.  Band 0 of the
output image contains the index value of the closest neighbor,
band 1 contains the index value of the next-closest neighbor, etc.
.PP
The output image made by \fBmsurfprep\fP is used by msurface as the means
of obtaining nearest-neighbor information for an inverse-distance-
weighting interpolation.  \fBmsurfprep\fP builds an image of nearest-
neighbor information based on easting/northing values from a
points file, and msurface interpolates a surface for a variable
z based on easting/northing/z values from a points file.  The
easting/northing values from all points files must correspond
exactly.
.PP
NOTE:  the output image created by \fBmsurfprep\fP will contain N
annotation strings in its band 0 basic image header, where N is
the number of lines in {points file}.  These annotation strings
contain easting/northing values, so that the msurface command may
check that its input points are compatible (see the warning below).
.PP
WARNING:  The stored index values contained in the \fBmsurfprep\fP
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	  output image are simply the positions of each
	  point within {points file}.  When the msurface
	  program is run, it must be given an input {points file}
	  that corresponds EXACTLY with the easting/northing
	  values used by msurfprep.  This means that the points
	  files used by msurfprep and msurface must not be sorted
	  differently.  The msurface program will fail if its
	  input points file doesn't match up with the points file
	  used by msurfprep.
.ft R
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIneighbors\fP
The number of nearest neighbors to be stored will
be \fIneighbors\fP (default: 12).  This number will be the
number of bands in the output image.  If the data sets
which will be used by msurface contain nodata
values, then \fIneighbors\fP should be larger than the number
of interpolation points \fIn_interp\fP you intend to use
with msurface.  If the datasets have no missing values,
then \fIneighbors\fP can be equal to your intended \fIn_interp\fP.
.sp
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIheader\fP
The IPW header file \fIheader\fP (default: standard input) will
be used to determine the number of lines, samples,
and geodetic information (from the "geo" header).
.sp
.TP
\fB-g\fP
Use spherical great-circle-distance computation.
If the \fB-g\fP is not set, use default Euclidean distance computation.
.sp
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpoints\fP
Points will be read in from {points file}.
The {points file} contains at least two values per line, viz:
.sp
easting  northing  {optional additional fields ignored}
.sp
where the easting and northing are specified in the same
coordinate system as given in the "geo" header.
Any additional information on each line is ignored.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
     To create an input nearest-neighbor image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
             msurfprep -h hdr.file -p pt.file1 > neibs.img
.ft R
.fi
.PP
     To interpolate a surface with msurface:
PRE>
             msurface -p pt.file2 neibs.img > outsurf.img
.ft R
.fi
.PP
To check that pt.file1 and pt.file2 refer to the same set of
eastings/northings:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
             awk '{print $1,$2}' pt.file1 > foo1
             awk '{print $1,$2}' pt.file2 > foo2
             diff foo1 foo2
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
error reading point \fInpoint\fP from input file
.sp
.TP
input header has no geodetic header
.br
	The input header file must have a GEO header.
.sp
.TP
WARNING: Using Euclidean distance with 'deg' units
.br
	If units are degrees, one usually wants to use the \fB-g\fP
	option for spherical distance computation.
.sp
.TP
WARNING: Using geo distance with seemingly non-geo units
.br
	\fB-g\fP was invoked, but coordinates are beyond the range
	of valid latitudes/longitudes.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The mask and header file must be single band.
.PP
Map projection distortions can introduce significant
error in distance computations as the spatial extent of
the image increases, or if an improper map projection is used.
For example, interpolating a surface over an Arctic region while
using a US Albers projection would produce unusual (and incorrect)
results.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1994
	Written by Rusty Dodson, Mantech Environmental Inc.,
ERL-C.
.TP
Apr 1995
	Changed bihmake call, Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Jun 1995
	Added \fB-g\fP option, Rusty Dodson, Mantech Environmental Inc.,
ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBmsurface\fP,
\fBsurface\fP,
\fBmkproj\fP,
\fBreproj\fP,
\fBmkgeoh\fP,
\fBmkbih\fP
.TP
Unix
	awk, diff
