.TH "prhdr" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBprhdr\fP - print headers of an IPW image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBprhdr\fP [\fIimage ...\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBprhdr\fP copies the IPW headers of the input \fIimage\fPs
to the standard output.  If more than one
\fIimage\fP is specified, then each group of output headers will
be preceded by:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     ::::::::::::::
     {image}
     ::::::::::::::
.ft R
.fi
.PP
IPW headers are printable text and are always separated from the
image data by a form feed (ASCII NP, control-L) character.  You can therefore
view the header of any IPW image directly with a pagination
command such as \fBmore\fP that pauses when it encounters a form feed.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIimage ...\fP
input image(s) (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The command:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	prhdr image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
might produce something like the following output:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	!<header> basic_image_i -1 $Revision: 1.8 $
	byteorder = 3210
	nlines = 96
	nsamps = 281
	nbands = 1
	!<header> basic_image 0 $Revision: 1.8 $
	bytes = 1
	bits = 8
	annot = Calculated NDVI for Period 03/02 thru 03/15/1990
	history = indvi
	!<header> image -1 $Revision: 1.5 $
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBmkbih\fP,
\fBmkcrh\fP,
\fBmkgeoh\fP,
\fBmklqh\fP,
\fBmksath\fP,
\fBmksunh\fP,
\fBmkwinh\fP,
\fBrmhdr\fP
.sp
.TP
UNIX
less, more, sed
.PP
Frew 1990
.br
