.TH "proport" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBproport\fP - compute monthly proportions from daily precipitation data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBproport\fP \fB-y\fP \fIyeartype\fP \fB-o\fP \fIout_prefix\fP [ \fIinfile\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBproport\fP reads an ASCII file of a year's worth of daily precipitation
station data, and writes 12 ASCII files.  Each output file pertains to one
month, and contains the monthly proportion of the observed variable
which occurred each day.  For example, if, for a given station, the
month of september had only two days of rainfall, then the output
file for that month would show 0.5 for the two days it rained, and 0.0
for all other days.
.PP
Negative precipitation values are assumed to be missing and are
output as -9999, so that the
\fBmsurface\fP
program will ignore them.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-y \fIyeartype\fP
This option controls whether the daily observation data are stored
in water-year (Oct. 1 - Sept. 30) (\fIyeartype\fP = "w") or
calendar-year (Jan. 1 - Dec. 31) (\fIyeartype\fP = "c")
order.
.sp
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIout_prefix\fP
The output files will be called "\fIoutput_prefix\fP.1" through
"\fIoutput_prefix\fP.12".  The numbers 1-12 pertain to the
calendar month (jan-dec) or the water month (oct-dec)
depending on the choice of \fB-y.  The fields of each
output file are:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR

         easting northing val1 val2 ... valN
.ft R
.fi
.sp
where "N" is the last day of the month.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIinfile\fP
A station file which is an ASCII file of climate station data.  Each record
of station file pertains to one measurement station.
The fields of each record are assumed to be:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        id z y x string obs1 obs2 ... obs365
.ft R
.fi

.sp
where:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        id     - station identifier (alphanumeric)
        z      - station elevation
        y      - station northing
        x      - station easting
        string - variable identifier, e.g. "Prcp"
        obs{n} - daily observations of a variable
.ft R
.fi

.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
NOTE: station 'xxx' for month \fIn\fP: \fIx\fP nodata values.
The program prints a warning to stderr if a station
has more than 15 nodata values in a given month.  A final
summary of all nodata statistics is also printed to stderr.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Leap year is not handled.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Dec 1993
Started by Paul Hardin, ERL-C.
.sp
.TP
Aug 1994
Working version completed by Rusty Dodson, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBiadd\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBnormalize\fP,
\fBscale\fP
