.TH "qdint" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBqdint\fP - numerical integration of x,y data pairs using a spline fit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBqdint\fP [ \fB-a\fP \fIlower \fP ] [ \fB-b\fP \fIupper \fP ] [ \fB-y\fP ] [ \fB-d\fP \fIdx \fP ] [ \fB-r\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Qdint performs numerical integration, using a spline fit,
over a set of x-y pairs read in from the standard input.
It outputs the # of input pairs, the value of integral and the x-value
at the half-integral to standard output.
.PP
The x values of the input pairs can be omited, and \fBqdint\fP
will compute x values from a starting x value (default: 0.0)
and a delta x value (default: 1.0).
.PP
Qdint can also remove a background value from all the y values.
The background value is assumed to be the first y value.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIlower \fP
Use \fIlower\fP as the lower integration limit (default: first
x value).
.sp
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIupper \fP
Use \fIupper\fP as the lower integration limit (default: last
x value).
.sp
.TP
\fB-y\fP
Read in only y values from standard input, and compute
x values using a lower integration limit and a delta-x value.
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIdx\fP
Use \fIdx\fP as the delta-x value when computing x values
(default: 1.0).  This option can only be used with the \fB-y
option.
.sp
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Remove the background value (i.e., the first y value) from
all the y values.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To integrate solar radiation to J/m^2 from data on average radiation in
W/m^2 at hourly intervals, setting the lower limit to 0.0 to avoid
negative integrals around sunrise and sunset:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	qdint  -a 0.0 -y -d 3600 <rad_vector
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
None
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jun 1983
Written by D. Marks and J. Dozier, CSL, UCSB;
.sp
.TP
Jan 1985
Updated and improved by D. Marks, CSL, UCSB;
.sp
.TP
Jun 1996
Ported to IPW. J. Domingo, OSU
.sp
.TP
Aug 1997
Converted to IPW Version 2.0 by D. Marks, USGS, ERL-C
.SH BUGS
.PP
None
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBakintrp\fP,
\fBezint\fP,
\fBinterp\fP
.PP
Davis and Rabinowitz 1975
.br
