.TH "refdx" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBrefdx\fP - refractive index from wavelengths
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBrefdx\fP [ \fB-r\fP ] [ \fB-i\fP ] \fB-s\fP \fIsubstance\fP[,\fI...\fP] [ \fB-t\fP \fItemp\fP ]
      [ \fB-u\fP \fIunits\fP ] [ \fB-d\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBrefdx\fP was originally written as a "qdips" program at
UCSB by Jeff Dozier.  It was converted to ipw in 1989.
.PP
\fBrefdx\fP prints out the complex refractive index for the named
sunstance(s), for wavelengths read from the standard input.
Optionally, the dielectric function can be printed instead of the
refractive index.
.PP
(see \fIIce Physics, Hobbs, 1974\fP)
.PP
Input list of wavelengths from stdin.
.PP
The values are obtained by fitting an Akima spline to data tables.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Only the real part is printed (default: print complex).
.sp
.TP
\fB-i\fP
Only the imaginary part is printed (default: print complex).
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsubstance\fP[,\fI...\fP]
The substance in question is \fIsubstance\fP.  The substances
supported are:
.sp
ice
water
.sp
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fItemp\fP
The temperature in degrees Celcius is \fItemp\fP (default: -5).
.sp
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIunits\fP
The wavelengths are specified in \fIunits\fP (default: um,
micrometers).  To obtain a list of supported units, use
"\fB-u\fP help" for a list of the units.
These are currently:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
        A       Angstroms
        nm      nanometers
        um      micrometers
        mm      millimeters
        cm      centimeters
        m       meters
        icm     inverse centimeters (wave numbers)
        MHz     megahertz
        GHz     gigahertz
.ft R
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Print the dielectric function for \fIsubstance\fP (default: print
the refractive index).
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
none
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The refractive index of ice and water for 3.55 micrometers:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	\fBrefdx\fP -s ice,water
	3.55
.ft R
.fi

.PP
should yield:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	3.55    1.4366  1.125e-02       1.3914  7.196e-03
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Where at 23 cm:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	\fBrefdx\fP -s ice,water -u cm
	23
.ft R
.fi

.PP
should yield:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	23      1.7865  2.166e-04       9.4017  7.677e-01
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To obtain refractive index of ice at 0C, in 2-nm increments from 200nm
to 400nm:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	\fBseq\fP -r 200,400 | \fBrefdx\fP -s ice -t 0 -u nm
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
none
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
maximum is \fIn\fP substances
.br
A maximum of \fIn\fP substances can be requested in any one run.
.sp
.TP
don't know refractive index for substance \fIsubst\fP
.br
The supported substances are currently "water" and "ice".
.sp
.TP
wavelength out of range (less than zero)
.br
The wavelength given was less than or equal to zero.
.sp
.TP
wavelength \fIwl\fP out of range
.br
The wavelength \fIwl\fP given is too high.
.sp
.TP
units \fIunits\fP not supported
.br
A list of the supported units can be obtained by a command
line such as: "\fBrefdx\fP \fB-s ice \fB-u help".
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Only water and ice are currently supported substances.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jan 1989
Written by Jeff Dozier, UCSB.
.TP
Aug 1993
Converted to ANSI C.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
none
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBalbedo\fP,
\fBsalbedo\fP,
\fBglob.alb\fP,
\fBseq\fP
.PP
Hobbs 1974
