.TH "selevrad" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBselevrad\fP - beam and diffuse radiation from elevation over snow
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBselevrad\fP [ \fB-n\fP \fI#bits\fP[,\fI#bits\fP] ] \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP \fB-t\fP \fItau\fP \fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP
      \fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP \fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP
      \fI\\
 -s start -d day -f zone -y year	-b d\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs -l d\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs \\
 -a gsize -m maxgsz -c dirt \fP[\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Selevrad is a modification of the program elevrad designed to deal only
with snow-covered terrain.  A group of radiation transfer programs along
these lines were developed by Kelly Longley, OSU, ERL-C, in early 1990.
.PP
Selevrad is a script that combines salbedo and elevrad to compute the
topographic distribution of beam and diffuse radiation over snow.
.PP
Selevrad computes beam & diffuse radiation over a topographic grid
over snow using a two-stream atmospheric radiation model.
If the sun is below the horizon at the specified time, a message is
printed to the screen and no output image is generated.
.PP
Surface albedo is calculated by program salbedo to calculate R0.
R0, reflectance of the substrate is set as the mean surface albedo.
.PP
Input water year days are assumed to be in GMT unless the -f (time
zone conversion: minutes west of Greenwich) option is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fI#bits\fP[,\fI#bits\fP]
# bits in output image
.sp
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
elevation of optical depth measurement
.sp
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fItau\fP
optical depth at z
.sp
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIomega\fP
single-scattering albedo
.sp
.TP
\fB-g\fP \fIgfact\fP
scattering asymmetry parameter
.sp
.TP
\fB-x\fP \fIw1\fP,\fIw2\fP
wavelength range, micrometers (.28,.7 for IR; .7,2.8 for vis)
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP
day of last snow storm (water year day)
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP
current day (water year day)
.sp
.TP
\fB-f\fP
time zone conversion (minutes west of Greenwich)
.sp
.TP
\fB-y\fP
water year
.sp
.TP
\fB-b\fP
latitude (degrees, minutes, seconds)
.sp
.TP
\fB-l\fP
longitude (degrees, minutes, seconds)
.sp
.TP
\fB-a\fP
grain size for albedo calculation
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP
maximum grain size
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP
contaimination factor for visible albedo
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fI\\
 -s start -d day -f zone -y year	-b d\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs -l d\fP,\fIm\fP,\fIs \\
 -a gsize -m maxgsz -c dirt \fP[\fIimage\fP]
	image	The input image file has three bands in this order:
			elevation
			slope
			azimuth
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To compute visible beam and diffuse irradiance over the Park City, Utah,
area, for 9:00AM, February 15, 1995:
.PP
\fBselevrad\fP \fB-z 100 \fB-t 0.2 \fB-w 0.85 \fB-g 0.3 \fB-x 0.28,0.7 -s 124.0 -d 137.375 \\
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	-f 420 -y 1995 -b 40,37,12 -l -111,31,58 -a 100 -m 800 -c 1.0
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
May 1991
  Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Protection Agency Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBalbedo\fP,
\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBsalbedo\fP,
\fBstoporad\fP,
\fBtoporad\fP
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
	snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
	vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
	radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
	Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dozier, J., J. Bruno, and P. Downey, 1991.  "A faster solution to the
	horizon problem", Computers and Geosciences, volume 7,
	number 2, pp. 145-151.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain parameters
	for radiation modeling from digital elevation data". IEEE
	Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 28, no. 5,
	pp. 963-969.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
	Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
	pp. 627-640.
.PP
Marks, D., J. Domingo, D. Susong, and D. Garen, 1997.  "A topographically##		distributed energy balance snowmelt model," submitted to WWater
	Resources Research.
