.TH "shade" "1" "10 April 1998" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBshade\fP - cosine of local illumination angle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBshade\fP [ \fB-z\fP \fIzenith\fP ] [ \fB-u\fP \fIcos\fP ] \fB-a\fP \fIazimuth\fP [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBshade\fP reads a 2-band slope and aspect image (the output from
the IPW gradient command) from \fIimage\fP (default: standard input),
and writes an image of local illumination cosines (relative to
a specified solar position) to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIzenith\fP
The solar zenith angle is \fIzenith\fP (0 .. 90) degrees.
.sp
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIcos\fP
The cosine of the solar zenith angle is \fIcos\fP (0 .. 1).
.PP
At least on of \fB-z or \fB-u must be specified.  If both are specified,
.PP
then \fB-z is ignored.
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIazimuth\fP
The solar azimuth is \fIazimuth\fP degrees (-180 .. 180) counter-
clockwise from south (positive east, negative west).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	input 2-band gradient (slope, aspect) image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To produce a nice-looking shaded-relief map from a DEM (i.e.,
one with the sun in the cartographically traditional, but, for
the northern hemisphere, physically impossible position of 45
degrees above the northwest horizon):
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	gradient elev_image | shade -z 45 -a -135
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
input file has no LQH
.br
	An "lq" header is necessary to convert the quantized
	slopes and aspects to their actual values.
.sp
.TP
band 0 of input not slope
.br
	The range of floating-point values in band 0 is
	inappropriate for quantized slopes.  \fBshade\fP will continue
	executing, but the output values will almost certainly
	be incorrect.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
Aug 1990
	Changed \fBshade\fP[s][a] calculation to prevent rounding.
Kelly Longley, ERL-C.
.TP
Apr 1993
	Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBgradient\fP,
\fBggradient\fP,
\fBgshade\fP
.PP
Frew, J., 1990.  The Image Processing Workbench.  Ph.D. Thesis,
	Department of Geography, University of California, Santa
	Barbara, CA, 382pp.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain
	parameters for radiation modeling from digital elevation
	data.  IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,
	vol. 28, no. 5, pp 963-969.
