.TH "skew" "1" "9 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBskew\fP - skew the lines of an IPW image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBskew\fP [ \fB-a\fP \fIangle\fP ] [ \fB-h\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBskew\fP copies \fIimage\fP (default: standard input) to the standard
output, skewing the origin of successive lines by a specified
angle.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIangle\fP
Introduce horizontal \fBskew\fP such the the left edge of the output
image is tilted "angle" degrees clockwise from vertical.  The
resulting "dead space" in the output image is 0-filled.  A
\fBskew\fP header is written to the output image.
.PP
If \fB-a is not specified, then the \fBskew\fP indicated by the input \fBskew\fP
.PP
header is removed.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
ignore input \fBskew\fP header.  This allows an image to be skewed
more than once, e.g. during rotation by shearing.
.sp
.TP
\fB-h\fP
may not be specified unless \fB-a is also specified.
.TP
\fB-P\fP \fInthreads\fP
number of threads to use, default=1 (parallel processing)
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The command:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	skew -a 30
.ft R
.fi

.PP
causes the following transformation:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	+-----------+		+---------------+
	|           |		|000/          /|
	|   input   |		|00/  output  /0|
	|   image   |		|0/   image  /00|
	|           |		|/          /000|
	+-----------+		+---------------+
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     $TMPDIR/skew\fINNNNN\fP
     	Temporary copy of all input headers.
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
image is already skewed
.br
	\fB-a was specified, and the input image contains a "\fBskew\fP"
	header.
.sp
.TP
image is not skewed
.br
	\fB-a was not specified, and the input image does not contain
	a "\fBskew\fP" header.
.sp
.TP
band \fIband\fP has no skew header
different skew angles: bands 0, \fIband\fP
.br
	If \fB-a is not specified, then all input bands must have a
	"\fBskew\fP" header, and they must be the same.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \fBskew\fP angle given by \fB-a must be between -45 and 45 degrees.
.PP
If \fB-a is specified then the input image must NOT have a \fBskew\fP header,
unless \fB-h is also specified, and a "\fBskew\fP" header is written to the
output image.
.PP
If \fB-a is NOT specified then the input image must contain a "\fBskew\fP"
header with the same \fBskew\fP angle for all bands.  The \fBskew\fP indicated
by this header is removed from the output image, and no "\fBskew\fP"
header is written to the output image.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
Apr 1993
	Converted to ANSI C, ran through Purify.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Nov 2015
	Read in full image before transpose, parallel, allow skew.c to be called as a stand alone function. Scott Havens. USDA-ARS.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBflip\fP,
\fBgviewf\fP,
\fBhorizon\fP,
\fBrotate\fP,
\fBtranspose\fP,
\fBviewf\fP
.PP
Frew, J., 1990.  The Image Processing Workbench.  Ph.D. Thesis,
	Department of Geography, University of California, Santa
	Barbara, CA, 382pp.
