.TH "snowmass" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsnowmass\fP - simple snowmelt model based on daily radiation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBsnowmass\fP
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBsnowmass\fP is a simple radiation based daily snowmelt model.  It
reads from standard input; each line should have:
.PP

.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	solar thermal Tmax Tmin dpt pcp lai elev u dt intrcpt
.ft R
.fi

.PP
where:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	solar   = total daily solar incidence at top of canopy (J)
	thermal = total daily thermal irradiance at forest floor (J)
	Tmax    = daily maximum air temperature (C)
	Tmin    = minimum daily air temperature (C)
	dpt     = dewpoint temperature (C)
	lai     = leaf area index (1 sided)
	elev    = site elevation (m)
	u       = mean daily wind speed (m/s)
	dt      = time period of Solin data (hrs)
	intrcpt = pcp intercept. coeff. (m/lai)
	          (default: -1=0.001m lai^-1)
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Output is to stdout.
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
 	assumptions:
.ft R
.fi

.PP
sublimation and melt only occurs during the day; if wind speed is zero
then wind is parameterized between 0.1m for full forest cover and 1.5m/s
for open areas. Penman-Monteith method used to sublimate snow.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
none
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
none
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
none
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
none
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
none
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Mar 1995
Written by John Kimball; SWR School of Forestry, University
of Montana. Modified from Coughlan's snow model for coniferous
forests (Coughlan PhD Dissertation, ch. 2).
.TP
Jun 1995
Converted to IPW by J. Domingo, OSU, EPA NHEERL/WED
.SH BUGS
.PP
none
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBsnobal\fP,
\fBisnobal\fP
