.TH "solar" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsolar\fP - exoatmospheric direct solar irradiance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBsolar\fP [ \fB-w\fP \fIum\fP[,\fIum2\fP] ] [ \fB-d\fP \fIyear\fP,\fImonth\fP,\fIday\fP ] [ \fB-a\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Solar calculates exoatmospheric direct \fBsolar\fP irradiance.  If two
arguments to \fB-w are given, the integral of \fBsolar\fP irradiance over
the range will be calculated.  If one argument is given, the
spectral irradiance will be calculated.
.PP
If no wavelengths are specified on the command line, single
wavelengths in um will be read from the standard input and the
spectral irradiance calculated for each.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIum\fP[,\fIum2\fP]
If two arguments are given, the integral of \fBsolar\fP irradiance
in the range \fIum\fP to \fIum2\fP will be calculated.  If one
argument is given, the spectral irradiance will be calculated.
If no arguments are given, single wavelengths will be read
from the standard input.
.sp
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIyear\fP,\fImonth\fP,\fIday\fP
The date is \fIyear\fP, \fImonth\fP, \fIday\fP.  This is used to
calculate the \fBsolar\fP radius vector which divides the result.
If no date is given, the \fBsolar\fP radius vector is taken as 1.
.sp
.TP
\fB-a\fP
No unit annotation will be printed, just the numbers.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
	None
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate the \fBsolar\fP irradance between .58 um and .68 um on
June 22, 1990:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	solar -d 1990,6,22 -w .58,.68
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Apr 1988
	Written by Jeff Dozier, UCSB.
.TP
Apr 1993
	Cleaned up and converted to ANSI C.
Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Jun 1996
	Moved \fBsolar\fP data from include file into C source file.
Modified initialization of \fBsolar\fP data so table
transposition no longer needed.  J. Domingo, OSU
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBsunlight\fP,
\fBtopquad\fP,
\fBtoporad\fP,
\fBtwostream\fP
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
	snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
	vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
	radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
	Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
	Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
	pp. 627-640.
