.TH "sunlight" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsunlight\fP - sunrise and sunset times, and quadrature weights
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBsunlight\fP \fB-d\fP \fIyear\fP,\fImonth\fP,\fIday\fP \fB-b\fP \fIlat\fP[,\fIlat\fP,\fIlat\fP] \fB-l\fP \fIlon\fP[,\fIlon\fP,\fIlon\fP]
       [ \fB-r\fP ] [ \fB-z\fP \fIzone\fP ] [ \fB-y\fP ] [ \fB-q\fP \fInpts\fP ] [ \fB-a\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sunlight calculates times of sunrise and sunset, given a date,
latitude, and longitude.  It can optionally also calculate times,
weights, and sun angles for numerical integration of solar
radiation over the day, currently with either 15 or 21 Kronrod
quadrature points.  Time returned is in GMT, unless a zone (with
optional daylight savings flag) is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIyear\fP,\fImonth\fP,\fIday\fP
The date is \fIyear\fP, \fImonth\fP, \fIday\fP.
.sp
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIlat\fP[,\fIlat\fP,\fIlat\fP]
The latitude is \fIlat\fP, specified in degress, minutes, seconds
unless \fB-r is specified, in which case it is in radians.
.sp
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlon\fP[,\fIlon\fP,\fIlon\fP]
The longitude is \fIlon\fP, specified in degress, minutes, seconds
unless \fB-r is specified, in which case it is in radians.
.sp
.TP
\fB-r\fP
The latitude and longitude options are taken to be radians
rather than degrees, minutes, seconds.
.sp
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIzone\fP
The time zone is \fIzone\fP minutes west of Greenwich (UTC).
.sp
.TP
\fB-y\fP
Daylight Savings time is in effect.
.sp
.TP
\fB-q\fP \fInpts\fP
Quadrature points will also be printed.  The number of points
used will be \fInpts\fP.
.sp
.TP
\fB-a\fP
The output will be abbreviated for use in shell scripts.  If
the "\fB-q" option is not specified, this will result
in output of:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR

	daylength sunrise solar_noon sunset

.ft R
.fi
in decimal hours.
If the "\fB-q" option is specified, daylength and
solar times will not be printed, and this will result in output of
only the quadrature points.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate the day length, radian lat/lon, and sunrise/sunset times
for a site in the Columbia Basin on June 22, 1990:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	sunlight -d 1990,6,22 -b 37 -l -112,30 -z 480
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
\fB-q: only 15 or 21 pts supported
.br
	The only supported values for number of quadrature points is
15 and 21.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Using the \fB-a option inhibits printing of sunrise and sunset times only
when combined with the \fB-q option.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Apr 1988
	Written by Jeff Dozier, UCSB.
.TP
May 1993
	Use new zonetime function instead of Sun-specific
timezone function.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.TP
Aug 2006
	Added output of decimal daylength, sunrise, solar noon and sunset
times for \fB-a option in the absence of the \fB-q option.
Danny Marks, ARS-NWRC.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBelevrad\fP,
\fBgelevrad\fP,
\fBgsunlight\fP,
\fBgtoporad\fP,
\fBsolar\fP,
\fBsunang\fP,
\fBsunweights\fP,
\fBtoporad\fP
.PP
Dozier, J., 1980.  "A clear-sky spectral solar radiation model for
snow-covered mountainous terrain".  Water Resources Research,
vol. 16, pp. 709-718.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1981.  "Atmospheric corrections to satellite
radiometric data over rugged terrain".  Remote Sensing of
Environment, vol. 11, pp. 191-205.
.PP
Dozier, J., J. Bruno, and P. Downey, 1991.  "A faster solution to the
horizon problem", Computers and Geosciences, volume 7,
number 2, pp. 145-151.
.PP
Dozier, J., and J. Frew, 1990.  Rapid calculation of terrain parameters
for radiation modeling from digital elevation data". IEEE
Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 28, no. 5,
pp. 963-969.
.PP
Dubayah, R., J. Dozier, and F. Davis, 1990.  "Topographic distribution
of clear-sky radiation over the Konza Prairie, Kansas".  Water
Resources Research, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 679-691.
.PP
Marks, D., R. Dubayah, and K. Longley, 1991.  "Modeling the topographic
and spectral variability of clear-sky solar radiation at regional
to continental scales.  Proceedings 1991 IGARSS Symposium,
Remote Sensing:  Global Monitoring for Earth Management, Espoo,
Finland, Vol. 3, pp. 1711.
.PP
Dubayah, R., and V. Van Katwijk, 1992.  "The topographic distribution
of annual incoming solar radiation in the Rio Grande basin".
Geophysical Research Letters, vol. 19, pp. 2231-2234.
.PP
Dubayah, R., 1994.  "Modeling a solar radiation topoclimatology for the
Rio Grande River Basin".  Journal of Vegetation Science, vol. 5,
pp. 627-640.
