.TH "tcloud" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtcloud\fP - cloudiness attenuation of solar radiation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBtcloud\fP [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBtcloud\fP reads a 2 band \fIimage\fP (default: standard input) containing
the daily diurnal temperature range (from deltaT) and writes the
cloudiness attenuation of solar radiation to the standard output
as an 8-bit IPW image.
.PP
The input image contains the two bands: band 0 contains the output
of the program deltaT, and band 1 contains the mean of the monthly
runs of deltaT.
.PP
The output image is calculated as Bristow and Campbell (1984):
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	cloud_coef = 1 - exp(-B deltaT ^ C)
.ft R
.fi

.PP
where:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	B = 0.036 exp (-0.154 mean_deltaT)
	C = 2.4 (constant)
.ft R
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	2-band input image of deltaT and mean monthly deltaT
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate cloud attenuation of radiation image "rad_image":
.PP
mux deltaT mean_deltaT  |  \fBtcloud\fP  | mux - rad_image | mult
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
image has \fIbands\fP bands, 2 band images only
.br
	The input image must have exactly two bands.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Oct 1993
	Written by Danny Marks, USGS, EPA ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBdeltaT\fP,
\fBmult\fP,
\fBmux\fP
.PP
Bristow, K.L, and G.S. Campbell, 1984.  "On the relationship between
	incoming solar radiation and daily maximum and minimum
	temperature," Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, vol. 31,
	pp. 159-166.
.PP
Running, S., R. Nemani, and R. Hungerford, 1987.  "Extrapolation of
	synoptic meteorological data in mountainous terrain and its
	use for simulating forest evapotranspiration and photosynthesis,"
	Canadian Journal of Forest Research, vol. 17, pp. 472-483.
