.TH "text2bin" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtext2bin\fP - convert text file with integers to binary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBtext2bin\fP [ \fB-1\fP ] [ \fB-2\fP ] [ \fB-4\fP ] [\fIfile ...\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBtext2bin\fP reads text integers from \fIfile\fP (default: standard input) and
writes thier binary equivalents to the standard output.  If more
than one \fIfile\fP are specified, then they are read in sequence.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-1\fP
Convert input to 1-byte (char) integers.
.sp
.TP
\fB-2\fP
Convert input to 2-byte (short) integers.
.sp
.TP
\fB-4\fP
Convert input to 4-byte (long) integers.
.PP
Exactly one of \fB-1, \fB-2, or \fB-4 must be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
\fIfile\fP
Input file to read text integers from (default: standard input).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To convert 256 text integers to an IPW lookup table:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
      text2bin -1 | mkbih -l 1 -s 256 -y 1
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
\fIfile\fP: bad input
.br
	An input value could not be converted to an integer.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\fBtext2bin\fP is not an IPW program, but is provided with IPW for use in
shell scripts.
.PP
Negative input values, or input values too large to be represented
in the specified number of output bytes, will be converted to
binary in a machine-dependent fashion.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
Written by James Frew, UCSB.
.TP
Dec 1997
Ported to version 2, and renamed from \fBatob\fP to \fBtext2bin\fP.
J. Domingo, OSU.
.SH BUGS
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBbin2text\fP
