.TH "topotherm" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtopotherm\fP - atmospheric thermal radiation over a topographic grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBtopotherm\fP [ \fB-m\fP \fImask\fP ] [ \fB-v\fP \fIcanopy_atten_image\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP \fIcloud_atten_image\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBtopotherm\fP calculates thermal radiation from the atmosphere corrected
for topographic effects, from near surface air temperature Ta,
dew point temperature DPT, and elevation.
Based on a model by Marks and Dozier (1979).
.PP
Contribution to emissivity from vegetation canopy and clouds is assumed to
be proportional to attenuation of clear sky view (between 0-1) by each.
Canopy shading is estimated using Beers' Law (Monteith and
Unsworth, 1990), after Wigmosta, Vail, and Lettenmaier (1994).
The input image are canopy or cloud attenuation (from cf_cloud for cloud
attenmation, and from classified vegetation images (veg type, height, and
density) using the imath function for vegetation) such that canopy or cloud
view factors are (1 - canopy_or_cloud_attenuation).
Atmospheric emissivity is enhanced by:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	emiss = emiss * (1 - vegfac) + vegfac
.ft R
.fi

.PP
and by cloud cover:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	emiss = emiss * (1 - cloudfac) + cloudfac
.ft R
.fi

.PP
(See Link and Marks 1999a & 1999b;
Marks et al., 1998, 1999b)
.PP
The four-band input image; Band 0 is Ta, band 1 is DPT, band 2 is elev,
and band 3 is skyview factor (from viewf or gviewf).
Output is a 1-byte image of thermal irradiance from the atmosphere.
.PP
Vegetation and cloud view factors are computed as 1-attenuation from
the input images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImask\fP
mask image
.sp
.TP
\fB-v\fP \fIcanopy_atten_image\fP
veg attenuation factor image
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcloud_atten_image\fP
cloud attenuation factor image
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image	four-band input image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate thermal radiation over a basin within a dem grid:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux ta dpt elev skv | topotherm -m basin_mask
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
Input image must have four bands;
terminates with error message;
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Oct 1992
Written by Danny Marks, US Geological Survey,
EPA Environmental Research Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.TP
Sep 1995
Corrections for terrain view factor and vegetation view
factor added by D. Marks, US Geological Survey,
EPA Environmental Research Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.TP
Feb 2000
Correction for cloud view factor added, and input changed
to vegetation and cloud attenuation factors by D. Marks,
USDA-ARS, NWRC, Boise, ID
.SH BUGS
.PP
Calculation of vegetation and cloud emissivity enhancement is
still uncertian.  We need some more thermal data.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBlocally developed cf_cloud\fP,
\fBgviewf\fP,
\fBimath\fP,
\fBlocally modified trad\fP,
\fBthermin\fP,
\fBvptr\fP,
\fBviewf\fP
.PP
Marks & Dozier 1979,
Monteith & Unsworth 1990,
Wigmosta, Vail, & Lettenmaier 1994,
Link & Marks 1999a,
Link & Marks 1999b,
Marks, Kimball, Tingey, & Link 1998,
Marks, Domingo, Susong, Link & Garen 1999b,
Susong, Marks, & Garen 1999
