.TH "trad" "1" "23 March 2009" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtrad\fP - incoming thermal radiation at one elevation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBtrad\fP \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP [ \fB-m\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP ] [ \fB-K\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Trad is one of a group of commands designed to simulate energy,
climate, or hydrologic processes or properties at a point.
Most were originally written as "qdips" (Quick and Dirty Image
Processing System) programs by D. Marks, during the 1980's at UCSB.
.PP
Trad calculates incoming longwave radiation from the atmosphere
on a horizontal surface for a specified elevation for a clear atmosphere
from input pairs of air temperature and vapor pressure.
(After Marks and Dozier, 1979).
.PP
Input is to stdin; output to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
\fIelev\fP is the specified elevation in meters.
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP
The input values for vapor pressure are in millibars.
(default: Pa).
.sp
.TP
\fB-c\fP
Also output thermal rad for very cloudy atmosphere.
(cloud emissivity: 0.998).
.sp
.TP
\fB-K\fP
The input values for air temperatures is in degrees K
(default: C).
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To calculate incoming thermal radiation at the Park City weather station,
using the following input data set:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	ta	vp
	8	540
	10	560
	6	520
	3	490
	0	495
.ft R
.fi

.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	trad -z 2940
.ft R
.fi
.PP
yields:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	208.15
	214.98
	201.46
	191.69
	184.16
.ft R
.fi

.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	trad -z 2940 -c
.ft R
.fi
.PP
yields:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	208.15	350.5
	214.98	360.12
	201.46	340.20
	191.69	325.81
	184.16	311.88
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
May 1986
	Written by D. Marks, CSL, UCSB;
.TP
Jun 1995
	Converted to IPW by J. Domingo, OSU, EPA NHEERL/WED
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
\fBstandard cvtime\fP,
\fBalbedo\fP,
\fBbowvap\fP,
\fBdewpt\fP,
\fBgsnow\fP,
\fBmse\fP,
\fBpenmonx\fP,
\fBpmx\fP,
\fBpott\fP,
\fBptaylorx\fP,
\fBptx\fP,
\fBrh2vp\fP,
\fBsatvp\fP,
\fBsling\fP,
\fBsoilt\fP,
\fBsoiltmp\fP,
\fBsrftmp\fP,
\fBswe\fP,
\fBswp\fP,
\fBthermin\fP,
\fBtrb_Ri\fP,
\fBtrbxfr\fP,
\fBvptr\fP,
\fBzpr\fP
.PP
Marks & Dozier 1979,
Brutsaert 1975
