.TH "transcoord" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtranscoord\fP - translate coordinates between geographic projections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBtranscoord\fP \fB-i\fP \fIinproj\fP \fB-o\fP \fIoutproj\fP [\fIinfile\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Transcoord is part of an extensive suite of projection transformation
tools coded into IPW by Kelly Longley (OSU) at the EPA Laboratory
in Corvallis, Oregon.  All are based on the libraries from the
General Cartographic Transformation Package (GCTP), which were converted
to C from fortran during early 1990 by Ms. Longley.
.PP
Transcoord translates a file of geographic projection coordinates
to another map projection using the USGS General Cartographic
Transformation Package (GCTP) software.
.PP
The input file is an ASCII file with one easting, northing pair per
line, followed by any other data.
.PP
The output file, written to stdout, is an ASCII file with the input
map coordinates replaced by the translated coordinates, and the
remainder of the data line copied.
.PP
The input and output projection definition parameters can be created
from the program "mkproj".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIinproj\fP
input projection definition file
.sp
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIoutproj\fP
output projection definition file
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIinfile\fP]
	infile	input file (default:stdin)
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To convert a list of station elevations from geodetic coordinates
(lat, long) to U.S. Albers:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mux long lat staID elev | transcoord -i geo.defs -o albers.defs
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     The projection definition files are ASCII files with the following
     format:
     	projection ID
     	units code
     	zone code
     	datum code
     	projection parameters (15 values)
     The files may be created using program mkproj, or with programs mkgeo,
     mkalbers, etc.  See the man pages for these programs, or USGS
     documentation for the General Cartographic Transformation Package
     for details on the parameters.
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
None
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1991
	Written by Kelly Longley, Oregon State University,
Environmental Research Laboratory, Corvallis OR
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBmkalbers\fP,
\fBmkgeo\fP,
\fBmklambert\fP,
\fBmklamcc\fP,
\fBmkproj\fP,
\fBreproj\fP,
\fBreproj_area\fP
.PP
Evenden, G.I., 1983.  "Forward and inverse cartographic projection
	procedures", USGS Open-File Report 83-623, 85 p.
.PP
Elassal, A.A., 1987.  "General Cartographic Transformation Package
	(GCTP), Version II", NOAA Technical Report NOS 124 CGS 9,
	24p.
.PP
Snyder, J.P., 1987.  "Map projections - A working manual", USGS
	Professional Paper 1395, 383 p.
.PP
Snyder, J.P., and R.M. Voxland, 1989.  "An album of map projections",
	USGS Professional Paper 1453, 249 p.
