.TH "vptr" "1" "5 November 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBvptr\fP - vapor pressure from thermal radiation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBvptr\fP \fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP [ \fB-K\fP ] [ \fB-m\fP ] [ \fB-r\fP ]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBvptr\fP is one of a group of commands designed to simulate energy,
climate, or hydrologic processes or properties at a point.
Most were originally written as "qdips" (Quick and Dirty Image
Processing System) programs by D. Marks, during the 1980's at UCSB.
.PP
\fBvptr\fP calculates vapor pressure as a function of measured thermal
radiation and air temperature by inverting the equations in
\fIMarks and Dozier, 1979\fP.
Expects input of air temperature and incoming thermal
radiation (W/m**2) from stdin.
Output is vapor pressure and relative humidity if RH flag is set,
or just vapor pressure.
.PP
Input is from stdin; output to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIelev\fP
\fIelev\fP is the reference elevation in meters.
.sp
.TP
\fB-K\fP
Air temperatures are in degrees K (default: C).
.sp
.TP
\fB-m\fP
The output values for vapor pressure are in millibars.
(default: Pa).
.sp
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Relative humidity is also outputed with vapor pressure.
.SH OPERANDS
.PP
none
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To estimate vapor pressure and relative humidity from a thermal
radiation value of 250 (W/m^2) and an air temperature of 4C:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	\fBvptr\fP -z 2940 -r <{3 180}
.ft R
.fi

.PP
results in: ea=315.44,   rh=0.42
.SH FILES
.PP
none
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
none
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
none
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1986
Written by D. Marks, CSL, UCSB;
.TP
Jun 1995
Converted to IPW by J. Domingo, OSU, EPA NHEERL/WED
.SH BUGS
.PP
none
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
\fBdewpt\fP,
\fBidewpt\fP,
\fBirh2vp\fP,
\fBrh2vp\fP,
\fBisatvp\fP,
\fBsatvp\fP,
\fBsling\fP,
\fBthermin\fP,
\fBtrad\fP,
\fBzpr\fP
.PP
Brutsaert 1975,
Marks 1979
