.TH "wedge" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBwedge\fP - linear combination of line and sample coordinates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBwedge\fP \fB-c\fP \fIlcoef\fP,\fIscoef\fP[,\fI...\fP] [ \fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBwedge\fP reads the headers from \fIimage\fP (default: standard input) and
writes an image with the same number of lines and samples to the
standard output.  The value of each output pixel is a linear
combination of the pixel's raw line and sample coordinates.
.PP
The number of coefficients specified must be a multiple of 2, and
the number of output bands will be half the number of coefficients.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIlcoef\fP,\fIscoef\fP[,\fI...\fP]
Output pixels are assigned the value:
.sp
line * \fIlcoef\fP  +  sample * \fIscoef\fP
.sp
Each pair of \fIlcoef\fP,\fIscoef\fP will be used to generate
a new output band.
.sp
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInbits\fP
Use \fInbits\fP per output pixel (default:
log2(max(nlines,nsamps)), where nlines and nsamps are the
dimensions of \fIimage\fP).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To produce a 512 by 512 single-band diagonal \fBwedge\fP with 8-bit pixels
increasing in intensity from the upper left corner:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mkbih -l 512 -s 512 -f | wedge -c 1,1 -n 8
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Note that the input image can be a standalone BIH since only the
header is required.
.PP
To produce an 8-bit image with 2 \fBwedge\fP channels, the first
increasing horizontally, and the second deceasing horizontally,
sized to match an existing "image":
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	wedge -c 0,1,0,-1 -n 8 image
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To produce a 16 by 16 8-bit image varying from .5 to 1.5 vertically:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	mkbih -l 16 -s 16 -f | wedge -c 1,0 -n 8 |  \\
		scale -o div -v 15 | scale -o add -v .5
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
must specify an even number of coefficients
.br
	\fB-c must have an even number of arguments
.sp
.TP
band \fIband\fP: both coefficients cannot be 0
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Any optional headers, other than "lq" headers, will be copied from
the input image to the corresponding bands of the output image.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
Apr 1993
	Ran through Purify.  Dana Jacobsen, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBmkbih\fP
.PP
Frew, J., 1990.  The Image Processing Workbench.  Ph.D. Thesis,
	Department of Geography, University of California, Santa
	Barbara, CA, 382pp.
