.TH "zoom" "1" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBzoom\fP - enlarge or reduce an IPW image by replication or subsampling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
\fBzoom\fP [ \fB-l\fP \fIlfactor\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIsfactor\fP ] [ \fB-f\fP ] [\fIimage\fP]
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBzoom\fP reads \fIimage\fP (default: standard input) and writes a copy to
the standard output, with lines and/or samples either replicated
or skipped.
.PP
Positive factors specify enlargement, negative factors specify
reduction.
.PP
When skipping lines or samples, counting begins at (0,0); i.e., the
first sample in the input image is always present in the output image.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlfactor\fP
Replicate each line \fIlfactor\fP times.  If \fIlfactor\fP is
negative, then select every \fIlfactor\fP'th line, beginning
with line 0.
.sp
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsfactor\fP
Replicate each sample \fIsfactor\fP times.  If \fIsfactor\fP is
negative, then select every \fIsfactor\fP'th sample,
beginning with sample 0, from each selected line.
.sp
.TP
\fB-f\fP
When replicating, force the edges of the output image
to coincide exactly with those of the input image.
This only makes sense on images with geodetic headers.
If the \fB-f option is not used, the output image will be
offset in geodetic space.
.sp
NOTE: when using the \fB-f option, the \fBzoom\fP procedure is not
reversible.  For example,
.sp
\fBzoom\fP \fB-f \fB-l 10 \fB-s 10 foo | \fBzoom\fP \fB-l -10 \fB-s -10
.sp
will output pixel values identical to those of foo, but
the geodetic extent of the output image will be
different from that of foo.
.PP
At least one of \fB-l and/or \fB-s must be specified.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
[\fIimage\fP]
	image
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To \fBzoom\fP an image by a factor of 2 in both directions:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	zoom -s 2 -l 2
.ft R
.fi

.PP
To histogram every 10th pixel of a large image:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	zoom -s -10 -l -10 | hist
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Zooming by non-integer factors in accomplished by expressing the
desired \fBzoom\fP factor as a fraction, and then using the pipeline:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	zoom -{dir} {numerator} | zoom -{dir} -{denominator}
.ft R
.fi

.PP
For example, to shrink an image by 3/4 horizontally (perhaps to
accommodate a display with a 4:3 aspect ratio):
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
	zoom -s 3 | zoom -s 4
.ft R
.fi

.PP
The fractional \fBzoom\fP pipeline should be specified in the order
shown (replication BEFORE subsampling).  Reversing the order
(subsampling before replication) may be faster, but results in
much greater loss of spatial resolution.
.SH FILES
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
     None
.ft R
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.TP
line zoom factor must be non-zero
sample zoom factor must be non-zero
.br
	Zoom factors must be non-zero integers.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
None
.SH HISTORY
.TP
Jul 1990
	Written by James Frew, UCSB.
Base IPW routine (Frew, 1990)
.TP
Aug 1994
	Added \fB-f option; Rusty Dodson, ERL-C.
.SH BUGS
.PP
None that we know of
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW
	\fBwindow\fP,
\fBresamp\fP
.TP
Image
	pbmscale, rlezoom, xli, xloadimage, xv
.PP
Frew, J., 1990.  The Image Processing Workbench.  Ph.D. Thesis,
	Department of Geography, University of California, Santa
	Barbara, CA, 382pp.
