.TH "ipw-dt" "5" "5 March 2015" "IPW v2" "IPW Header Files"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBipw-dt\fP - dates and times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
#include "ipw.h"
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A date-time combination in IPW is represented by a single
typedef:
.sp
.nf
.ft CR
    typedef \fBdatetime_t\fP has these members:

        int  year;    /* year (note: 90 = 90 AD, not 1990)  */
        int  month;   /* month [1 - 12]                     */
        int  day;     /* day of month [1 - 31]              */
        int  hour;    /* time of day: hour [0 - 23]         */
        int  min;     /*  "   "   " : minutes [0 - 59]      */
        int  sec;     /*  "   "   " : seconds [0 - 59]      */
.ft R
.fi
.PP
\fBConstants\fP
.PP
.TP
\f(CRSECS_IN_MIN\fP
# of seconds in a minute (integer).
.sp
.TP
\f(CRSECS_IN_HR\fP
# of seconds in an hour (integer).
.sp
.TP
\f(CRSECS_IN_HR\fP
# of seconds in an hour.
.sp
.TP
\f(CRSECS_IN_DAY\fP
# of seconds in a day.
.sp
.TP
\f(CRMINS_IN_HR\fP
# of minutes in an hour.
.sp
.TP
\f(CRHRS_IN_DAY\fP
# of hours in a day.
.PP
\fBMacros\fP
.PP
.TP
\f(CRHR_TO_MIN(h)\fP
Convert # of hours (h) into # of minutes.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRHR_TO_SEC(h)\fP
Convert # of hours (h) into # of seconds.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRMIN_TO_SEC(m)\fP
Convert # of minutes (m) into # of seconds.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRMIN_TO_HR(m)\fP
Convert # of minutes (m) into # of hours.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRSEC_TO_MIN(s)\fP
Convert # of seconds (s) into # of minutes.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRSEC_TO_HR(s)\fP
Convert # of seconds (s) into # of hours.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRSEC_TO_DAY(s)\fP
Convert # of seconds (s) into # of days.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRDAY_TO_SEC(d)\fP
Convert # of days (d) into # of seconds.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRHMS_TO_SEC(h,m,s)\fP
Convert a time in hours (h), minutes (m), and seconds (s) into
a total # of seconds.
.PP
.TP
\f(CRDAYS_IN_YR(y)\fP
Returns the # of days in a given calendar year (y).  Handles
leap years, so it returns either 365 or 366.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
IPW:
add_to_dt(),
dt2str(),
dt_diff(),
dt_in_order(),
gmt2local(),
leapyear(),
local2gmt(),
make_dt(),
numdays(),
sec2hms(),
waterday(),
wday2mday(),
weekday(),
yday2mday(),
yearday(),
zone2str()
